
'>':¥/. 

^'^^■< '^ 

>. j^^ 

MJ^l 

M \ ^^ 

^<:i0' 

S:^y' 

HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 

OF THE 
 MUSEUM OF COMPARATIVE ZOOLOGY 

i 

AMERICAN 

JOUMAL OF CONCHOLOGY. 

VOLUME II. 

EDITED BY 

GEORGE W. TRYON, JR., 

Memliei- of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; Coiresponding Member of the 

Boston Society of Natural History, the New York Lyceum of Natural History, 

the California Academy of Natural Sciences, the Zoological-Botanical 

Society of Vienna, &c. 

CONTAINING- ARTICLES BY 

WESLEY NEWCOMB, M. D., WM. M. fiARB, O. A L MORCH 

E. MICHENER, M. D., JOHX G ANTHONY, H. CKOSSE 

THOMAS BLAND, W. HARPER PEASE, F DAHLTE 

T. A. CONRAD, P. P. CARPENTER, And the Editor. 

ILLUSTRATED BY 27 COLORED AND PLAiN PLATES. 

PHILADELPHIA : 
 George W. Tuyon, Jr., 625 Market Street. 

NEW YORK: BOSTON: 

Baii.liere Brothers, No. 520 Broadway. Little, Bkown & Co. 

LONDON: 

Trubner & Co., No. 60 Paternoster Row 

TARIS: MADRID: 

J B, Bailliere et Fils, Rue Hautefemlle. C. Baillt-Bailliere, Calle del Principe. 

BERLIN : 

AsnER & Co., No. 20 Unter d. Linden. 

1866. 

Part 1 published Jaimaiy 1st, l>i<6<6. 
 " 2 " April 1st, 

" 3 " July 1st, 

"4 •• Uctuber t)th. " 

CONTENTS. 

Part 1— January 1st, 1866. 

1. Description of a New American Species of Helix. By 

Wesley Newcomb, M. D 1 

2. On an Abnormal Specimen of Planorbis bicarinatus. 

By George W. Tryon, Jr 3 

3. Descriptions of New Fresh-Water Shells of the United 

States. By George W. Tryou, Jr 4 

4. Descriptions of New Exotic Fresh-Water MoUusca. 

By George W. Tryon, Jr 8 

5. Description of a New Species of Rissoa. By George W. 

Tryou, Jr 13 

6. Addition to " Catalogue of Helices Inhabiting the West 

Coast of North America, North of Cape St. Lucas." 

By Wesley Newcomb, M. D 13 

i 7. Monograph of the Family Strepomatidse. (Continued.) 

By George W. Tryon, Jr 14 

8. Note on Helix rufa, DeKay. By E. Michener, M. D 53 

9. Remarks on the Origin and Distribution of the Opercu- 

lated Land Shells which inhabit the Continent of 
 America and the West Indies, with a Catalogue of 
 the American Species. By Thomas Bland 54 

10. Note on the Internal Structure of Megaspira. By Thomas 

Bland 64 

11. Illustrations of Miocene Fossils, with Descriptions of 

New Species. By T. A. Conrad 65 

12. Note on the Genus Gadus, with Descriptions of some 

New Genera and Species of American Fossil Shells. 
 By T. A. Conrad 75 

13. Descriptions of New Species of Australian Fresh- Water 

Shells. By T. A. Conrad 79 

14. Note on Mr. Pease's Species of Polynesian Phanero- 

pneumona. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr 82 

15. On the Modern Classification of Mollusks. By O. A. L. 

Morch 83 

IG. Reply to Mr. Conrad's Criticism on Mr. Gabb's ''Report 

on the Palsentology of California." By Wm. M. Gabb. 87 

EDITOR'S TABLE. 
 Reviews y 93 

^TOmca«,.— Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences. 
 Foreign.— Journal de Conchy liologie, &c. 
 Scientific Intelligence 9G 

ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Portrait of Dr. Wesley Newcomb, with Autograph. 
 Three Colored and Two Plain Plates. iii. 

Part 2— April 1st, 1866. 

I. Further Observations on Mr. Gabb's Palaeontology of 

California. By T. A. Conrad 97 

2. Observations on Recent and Fossil Shells, with proposed 

new Genera and Species. By T. A. Conrad 101 

3. Descriptions of new Species of Tertiary, Cretaceous and 

Recent Shells. By T. A. Conrad 104 

4. Description of a new Species of Unio. By T. A. Conrad... 107 

5. Description of a new Species of Vivipara. By George W. 

Tryon, Jr 108 

6. Descriptions of new Fluviatile MoUusca. By George W. 

Tryon, Jr Ill 

7. Observations on an Abnormal Specimen of Physa gyrina. 

By George W. Tryon, Jr 114 

8. Monograph of the family Strepomatidse, (concluded.; By 

George W. Tryon, Jr 115 

9. Note on the Lingual Dentition of the Strepomatidse. By 

George W. Tryon, Jr 134 

10. Remarks on the Origin and Distribution of the Opercu- 

lated Land Shells which inhabit the Continent of 
 North America and the West Indies, (continued.) By 
 Thomas Bland 136 

II. Descriptions of new American Fresh- water Shells. By 

John G. Anthony 144 

EDITOR'S TABLE. 

Reviews and Summary of Conchological Publications 148 

American. — Review of the Northern Buccinums, by Dr. Wm. Stimp- 
 son. — Reprint of Conchological Papers, by Isaac Lea. — List of 
 Brachiopoda from the Island of Anticosti. by"N. S. Shaler.— Stimp- 
 son's Researches upon the Hydrobiinre. — Proceedings of the Acad- 
 emy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. — Morse's new Species of 
 Pupadaj. — Notes on Terrestrial Mollusca, with Descriptions of new 
 Species, by Thomas Bland. — Reperterio fisico-natural de la Isla 
 de Cuba. 

Foreir/)i..- — Conchologia Iconica. — Further Reports on Shetland 
 Dredgings, by J Gwyn Jeffreys. — Transactions of the Linnsan 
 Society. — British Conchology, Vol. 8, by Jeffreys. 

Malacologie d'Aix les Bains, Monographie du genre Paladilhia, et Moit- 
 essieria, MolUisques de la Sahara, by J. R. Bourguignat.— Journal 
 de Conchyliologie. — Revue et Magazin de Zoologie. — Malacologie 
 de la Grande-Cliartreuse, by Bourguignat. — Malacologie de I'Al 
 gerie, by Bourguignat.— 13 ulletin de I'Academie Imp. des Sciences 
 de St Petersburg. — Annales des Sciences Naturelles. 

Monographia Pneumonopomorum Viventium.— Ueber die Familie der 
 Rissoiden, by Mohrenstern. — Novitates Conchologicse, Dy Pfeiffer, 
 Dunker and Romer.— Archiv. fur Naturgeschichte. 

Ofversigt af Kongl. Votenskaps Akademiens Forhandlingar, &c. 

Scientific Intelligence 179 

On the Anatomy of Tridacna elongata, by Leon Vaillant.— On the 
 correct Application of Certain Terms used in the Descrijition of 
 Shells, by A. A. Gould, M.D.— Curious Distortion in the Shell of 
 Physa heterostropha. — Remarks on the Habits of Spirialis Flem- 
 ingii, by Alex. Agassiz. — Collection of Shells for Sale. — Report of 
 the Conchologicai Committee of the Academy of Natural Sciences. 
 —Address of the Building-fund Committee of the Academy of Na- 
 tural Sciences, etc. 

Obituary 189 

Lovell Reeve.— M. Valenciennes.— Bouchara-Chautercaux. 

ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Portrait of John G. Anthony, with Autograph. 
 Three Colored and Four Plain Plates. 

Part 3— July 1st, 1866. 

1. Descriptions of New Species of Par tula, Inhabiting the 

Tahitian Archipelago. By W. Harper Pease 193 

2. Remarks on Nudibranchiata inhabiting the Pacific Isl- 

ands, with Descriptions of two New Genera. By W. 
 Harper Pease 304 

3. Descriptions of Achatinellse. By Wesley Newcomb, M. D... 209 

4. Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United 

States. By George W. Trj-on, Jr oig 

1. Preface. 

2. Introduction. 

3. Descriptions of Species. 

4. Reference to Plates and Synonymy. 

5. Descriptions of American Fresh-water Shells. By T. A. 

Conrad 278 

C. Descriptions of New Marine Bivalve Shells. By T. A. 

Conrad 280 

EDITOR'S TABLE. 
 Reviews 283 

American. — Proceedings of the Essex Institute.— Transactions of the 
 Academy of Science of St. Louis.— Annals of the New lork Ly- 
 ceum of Natural History.— Bi'own's Catalogue of Shells.— Note 
 on the affinities of Bellerophontid;!?, by F. B. Meek. 
 i^;m/77?..— Tate's Land and Fresh-water Mollusks of Great Britain.— 
 Conchologia Iconica, etc. 

Obituary 2gg 

Cantraine — Poulson. 

ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Portrait of Prof. S. S. Haldeman, with Autograph. 
 Three Colored and Four Plain Plates. 

VI. CONTENTS. 

Part 4— October 1st, 1866. 

1. Descriptions of New Species of Land Shells inhabiting 

Polynesia. By Willhuu Harper Pease 289 

2. A Well-abused Mollusk. By H. Crosse. (Translated by 

Frank Danlte 294 

3. Description of a New Species of Columna. By George W. 

Tryon, Jr 297 

4. Descriptions of New Species of Melaniidse and Melano- 

pidse. By George W. Trj^on, Jr 299 

5. Description of a New Species of Septifer. By George "W. 

Tryon, Jr 302 

6. Description of a New Species of Helix. By George W. 

Tryon, Jr .^. 303 

7. On the Terrestrial Mollusca of the Guano Island of 

Navassa. By George W. Tryon, Jr 304 

8. Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United 

States. CContiuued.) By George W. Tryon, Jr 306 

9. On a Species of Helix from California, supposed to be 

New. By William H. Ball 328 

10. Descriptions of Three New Species of Land Shells from 

Arizona. By William M. Gabb 330 

11. On the Acm88id83 of the Vancouver and California pro- 

vince. By P. P. Carpenter 332 

13. Remarks on the Distribution of the Inoperculated Land 

Shells which inhabit the Continent of America and 

the West Indies. By Thomas Bland 349 

13. Descriptions of New Species of North American Land 

Shells. By Thomas Bland 371 

EDITOR'S TABLE. 

Reviews and Svimmary of Conchological Publications 37.5 

American. — Conchological Notes, by Ball.— Proceedings of the Philadel- 
 phia Academy of Natural Sciences.— American Journal of Science 
 and Arts. 

i^r>?-<??'(7».— Proceedings of the Zoological Society, London. — Conchologia 
 Iconica, by L Reeve. 

Journal de Conchyliologic. 

Scientific Intelligence 384 

Museum of Comparative Zoology, at Cambridge, Mass.— Building 
 Fund of the Academy of Natural Sciences, &c 

ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Portrait of Thomas Bland, with Autograph. 
 Two Colored and Two Plain Plates. 

LIST OF AUTHORS, 

AND THEIE CONTRIBUTIONS. 

Anthony, John G. 

Page. 

Descriptions of New American Fresh-water Shells, - - 144 

Bland, Thomas. 

Remarks on the Origin and Distribution of the Operculated 
 and Inoperculated Land Shells which Inhabit the Continent 
 of America and the West Indies, with a Catalogue of the 
 American Species, - - - - - - -54, 136, 349 

Note on the Internal Structure of Megaspira, ... 64 

Descriptions of New Species of North American Laud Shells, 371 

Carpenter, P. P. 

On the Acmgeidse of the Vancouver and Californian Province, 332 

Conrad, T. A. 

Illustrations of Miocene Fossils, with Descriptions of New Spe- 

cies, - - . 65 

Note on the Genus Gadus, with Descriptions of some New 

Genera and Species of American Fossil Shells, - - 75 

Descriptions of New Species of Australian Fresh-water Shells, 79 
 Further Observations on Mr. Gabb's Palaeontology of California, 97 
 Observations on Recent and Fossil Shells, with Proposed New 

Genera and Species, - - 101 

Descriptions of New Species of Tertiary, Cretaceous and Re- 
 cent Shells, - - - 104 

Description of a New Species of Unio, . . - . 107 
 Descriptions of American Fresh-water Shells, - - - 278 
 Descriptions of New Marine Bivalve Shells, ... 280 

Crosse, H. 

A Well-abused MoUusk, - - 394 

.vm. LIST OF AUTHORS, ETC. 

Ball, William H. 

On :i Species of Helix from California, supposed to be New, 328 

Daulte, Frank. 

A Well-abused Mollusk. (Translated from the French of H. 

Crosse ) - 394 

Gabb, William M. 

Reply to Mr. Conrad's Criticism on Mr. Gabb's "Report on the 

Palaeontology of California, ------ 87 

Descriptions of Three New Species of Land Sliells from Arizona, 330 

Morch, 0. A. L. 

On the Modern Classification of Mollusks, - - . . 83 

Newcomb, Wesley, M. D. 

Description of a New American Species of Helix, - - 1 

Addition to "Catalogue of Helices Inhabiting the West Coast 

of North America, North of Cape St. Lucas," - - 13 

Descriptions of Achatinellfe, - 209 

Pease, William Harper. 

Descriptions of New Species of Partula, Inhabiting the Tahitian 
 Archipelago, --------- 193 

Remarks on Nudibranchiata Inhabiting the Pacific Islands, with 

Descriptions of Two New Geuera, - - - - 204 

Descriptions of New Species of Land Shells, Inhabiting Poly- 
 nesia, --..---.-. 289 

Try on, George W., Jr. 

On an Abnormal Specimen of Planorbis bicarinatus, - - 3 

Descriptions of New Fresh-water Shells of the United States, 4 

Descriptions of New Exotic Fresh-water Mollusca, - - 8 

Description of a New Species of Rissoa, - - - - 12 

Monograph of the Family Strepomatidte, - - - - 14, 115 

Note on Mr. Pease's Species of Polynesian Phaneropneumona, 82 

Description of a New Species of Vivipara, - - - - 108 

Descriptions of New Fluviatile Mollusca, . - - - 111 

Observations on an Abnormal Specimen of Physa gyrina, - 114 

Note on the Lingual Dentition of the Strepomatidfe, - - 134 

Monograph of Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States, 218, 306 

Description of a New Species of Columna, - - - - 297 

Descriptions of New Species of Melaniidas and Melanopidge, 299 

Description of a New Species of Septifer, - - - - 302 

Description of a New Species of Helix, - - - - 303 

On the Terrestrial Mollusca of the Guano Island of Navassa, 304 

Published Quarterly, at $3 per No., or $10 per Annum. 

Vol. -i. X*ai-t 1, 

AMERICA N , 
 joxjKisrAL 

COIN'CHOLOG-Y 

^re.xivLebi"37- 1, isee. 

EDITED BY 

G^EOR^GJ^E "W^. TI2,^ir01V, Jr. 

Member of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; Corresponding Member of the Boston 

Society of Natural History, the New York Lyoeutn of Natural History, 

the California Academy of Natural Sciences, &c. 

PHILADELPHIA : 
 George W. Tryon, Jr., C35 Market Street. 

NEW YORK : BOSTOJf : 

Baili.iebe Brothers, No. 520 Broadway. Little, BrowS & Co. 

PARIS: MADRID: 

J. B. Bailliere et Fils, Rue Hautefeuille. C. Baillt-Baillieke, Calle del Principe. 

BERLIN: 
 ASHER it Co., No. 20 Unter d. Linden. 

Yeakel & Beo., Printers, 23 N. Sixth St 

'^ 

(Jo... uoLOGiSTsor Dealers having FRESH WATER SHELLS 
 from any part of the world, for sale or exchange, will please for- 
 ward Catalogues of species and prices, to 

CHARLES M. WHEATLEY, 
 Jan. 1805, (\y ) Phcenixville, Pennsylva nia. 

625 M^KKET BTREET, 

PHILADEPHIA, U. S. 

I offer to Couchologists and Collectors, to exchange any of my 
 publications, including the ''American Journal of Gonchology;' and 
 also my duplicate shells, for their memoirs ;m Conchological sub- 
 jects C" *"-- ar.,.pimpn^ 

Id. 
 quest 
 with ] 

My 
 dispot 
 very ] 
 theU 

NAi 
 e-x cluing 

CONC 
 cau .Icmi 

D1RE( 
 above, V 

JttljrariJ of tlje gtuscum 

OF 

COMPARATIYE ZOOLOGY, 

AT HARVARD COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, MASS. 
 iFountietr hv prfbatc suliscriptfon, fn 1861. 

Deposited by Louis Agassiz. 

re- 
 rues 

will 
 1 at 
 and 
 ites. 

Vmeri- 

vVaxlnngtiia, u. v^., • 
 foUowiug booksellers :—G.Bo»sange & Co., Paris. 

au,l f^-rward their pacb^geMooUl^i^oyh.^ PHternoiter Row. LonUon. 
 ^t^S'co'^.re^plfua'e^UcLfoTrardhea^y packages by express or rail. Light packages can 
 forwarded by mail. 

AMERICAN JOURNAL OF CONCHOLOGY. 

VOL. I.-1865. 

edges, at $1^). 

above, at $l'i 

To those who subscribe to Vol. 11., the First Volume will be furnished at $10, or bound as 


/h,Jz 

'C'ou-Ofyix 

TVom a photograph for theAmen can Journal of C'oncholo^'y. 

i&Co-Uthl'lnlada.. 

AM E H I C A. N" 

JOURNAL OF CONCHOLOGY. 

YoL. II. JANUARY 1, 1866. No. 1. 

DESCRIPTION OP A NEW AMERICAN SPECIES OP 
 HELIX. 

BY WESLEY NEWCOMB, M. D. 

Helix Idahoexsis, Newcomb. — t. 1, f. 1, 2, 3. 

Description. — H, testa profunde umbilicata, tiirbinato-con- 
 oidea, corneo-cinerea, apice obtusa; anfr. 5 rotundatis, qiiarum 
 duobus primis laevibus vel minute oblique striatis, reliquis 
 forte costatis; costis in anfr. ultimo 20 ad 26, albis; sutura 
 bene impressa; apertura perobliqua, rotundata, que peristo- 
 mate integro, simplici, non-reflexo. 

Dimensions. — Diam. major '525 pol., minor '^o pol., axis '45' 
 pol. 

Locality. — Between Idaho Citj and Cour d'Alene Mining 
 District, Idaho Territory, (Hv Hemphill.) 

Shell deeply umbilicate, turbinately conic, ashy horn-color, 
 apex obtuse; whorls 5, rounded, the first two smooth, or mi- 
 nutely obliquely striated, the remainder strongly ribbed trans- 
 versely, numbering on the last whorl 20 to 26, of a clear white 
 color; suture well impressed; aperture very oblique and. cir- 
 cular; lip entire, simple, not reflected. 

2 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of George W. Trjon, Jr. 

Olservations. — I know of no Helix witli which this species 
 can be compared. H. cryptojjortica, Pfr., has comparatively 
 more and finer ribs, with the shell of quite a distinct form. 
 In the character of the ribs, standing out prominently on a 
 ground of a darker color, the contrast and general appearance 
 reminds one of some species of Scalaria. The nearest approach 
 of any terrestrial species with which I am acquainted, in this 
 respect, is Bulimus Fairhanki, Pfr., from Bombay. 

The rounded whorls, circular mouth and strong ribs mark 
 a new type of the genus for America. 

OP CONCnOLOGT. 

ON AN ABNORMAL SPECIMEN OP PLANORBIS 
 BICARINATUS. 

BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 

Plate 1, Fig. 4. 

The shell figured, is in the collection of Charles M. Wheat- 
 ley, Esq., of Phoenisville, Pa., and was collected by him at 
 Mexico, Owego Co., N. Y. It has assumed a turbinate and 
 scalariform shape, the spire being obtusely elevated, whorls 
 very convex, with deep suture, and the upper carina strongly 
 developed ; at the base it is narrowly umbilicate, the umbilical 
 region small, and bounded by the lower carina; the aperture 
 is small, ovate, somewhat expanded, and much thickened 
 within ; owing to compression, the two extremities of the lip 
 join upon the body, and are turned into the aperture, forming 
 a strong rib, which revolves within the shell. 

Numerous abnormal European Planorbes are illustrated in 
 Hartmann's magnificent work, "Erd und Slisswasser Gastero- 
 poden der Schweiz," but the species are all small ones. This 
 is the first American specimen which we have observed to de- 
 viate much from the normal form; reversed or scalariform 
 shells being very much rarer in America than in Europe. 
 Some of our species of Limnsea are sometimes slightly scalari- 
 form, and in the Viviparidse this is more frequent, but the de- 
 viation has never been observed to be very great. Melantho 
 Integra and decisa are both occasionally met with, reversed. I 
 believe that no scalariform Helix has been observed in the 
 United States, and the reversed specimens known do not ex- 
 ceed ten or twelve.* 

* See " Note on Variation in Species of Helix in Eastern North America," 
 in " Remarks on Certain Species of- North American Helicidae," by Thos. 
 Bland.- -Annals of the Lyceum of Nat. Hist., New York, VII , 1863. 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

DESCRIPTIONS OP NEW FRESH-WATER SHELLS 
 OF THE UNITED STATES. 

BY GEORGE W. TRYOX, JR. 

STEEP0MATIDJ5. 

1. AxGiTREMA Wheatleyi, Trjon. — t. 2, £ 1. 

Description. — Shell conoidal; inflated, rather thin; spire 
 conical, sharp pointed, suture not much impressed; whorls 
 about 6, those of the spire flattened, the body whorl large, 
 rather flattened above the somewhat angled periphery, convex 
 below, and somewhat attenuate at the base; the periphery is 
 ornamented with a single prominent row of slightly com- 
 pressed tubercles, and above is rugosely wrinkled, with a 
 tendency towards tuberculation ; aperture large, sub-rhom- 
 boidal, iialf the length of the shell, somewhat attenuate below, 
 columella nearly perpendicular, a little twisted. Bright horn- 
 color, with four broad, equidistant brown bands. 

Dimensions. — Length 25 mill., diam. 16 mill. 
 HaUtat.—E\]^ River, at Winchester, Tenn., (C. M. Wheat- 
 ley.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of Charles M. Wheatley. 

Ohservations. — This species is much more inflated, and has 
 more numerous tubercles than A. Duttoniana, Lea; it is in 
 appearance more like an obese variety of A. verrucosa, Raf., 
 but that species is heavier in texture, and has several rows of 
 tubercles. The Avell-developed tubercles and inferiorly con- 
 tracted aperture will readily distinguish this species from Li- 
 thasia fuliginosa, Lea. 

2. Pleurocera bicinctum, Tryon. — t. 2, f. 2. 

Description. — Shell elevated conical, somewhat cylindrical, 
 thick, smooth and shining; spire elevated, obtuse, suture dis- 
 tinctly but not deeply impressed; whorls about 6, somewhat 
 flattened, the last with an angular periphery, which is cari- 
 nate, and a second carina, less distinct, below it; lines of 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 5 

growth crowded, curved ; aperture rhomboidal, rather narrow, 
 terminating in a contracted fuse, outer lip very sinuous, 
 curving forward towards the base, columeUa short and rounded. 
 Bright olive-green, nearly orange beneath the suture; aper- 
 ture and columella purple. 

Dimensions. — Length (eroded) 19 mill., diam. 10 mill. 

Sahitat. — Bridgeport, Ala., (W. H. DeCamp.) 

Cabinet of Charles M. Wheatlj, Phoenixville, Penna. 

Observations. — This species is closely allied to PI. aratimi. 
 Lea, but differs in the position of the carina?, the form of the 
 aperture, etc. I do not know any other species with which it 
 can be compared. I have seen only one individual, but the 
 differences it exhibits are too marked to permit it to remain 
 uncharacterized. 

3. EuEYC^LOX Leah, Tryon. — t. 2, f. 3. 

Description. — Shell conical, thick, shining; spire conical, 
 obtusely elevated, suture moderately impressed; whorls about 
 6, slightly convex, everywhere covered with very fine close 
 revolving strige, somewhat shouldered beneath the suture and 
 crimped, body whorl large, slopingly convex ; aperture large, 
 ovate, broad below. Wax-yellow or somewhat olivaceous, 
 lighter beneath the the suture, Avhite within. 

Dimensions. — Length (eroded) 19 mill., diam. 13 mill. 

Habitat. — Etowah Kiver, Cartersville, Geo., (W. II. DeCamp.) 

Cabinet of Charles M. Wheatley, Phoenixville, Penna, 

Observations. — This species is somewhat like Gon. luteola, 
 Lea, in color, strife and texture, but differs in having tuber- 
 cles, and in the form of the aperture. In G. per grata, Lea, the 
 striiB are coarser, and the tuberculations wanting. It is a 
 very neat species, beautifully marked by the narrowly com- 
 pressed numerous tubercles under the suture, and its close, 
 waved revolving strife. 

4, GoNiOBASis UJSTDULATA, Tryon. — t. 2, f. -l. 

Description. — Shell turrited, narrow, moderately thick; spire 
 much elevated, acute, suture deeply impressed; whorls 9 to 10, 
 somewhat convex, sloping, carinate just above the suture, with 
 faint plications above the carina, crossed by raised revolving 
 stria?, which extend over all the whorls, and number 9 on the 
 body whorl ; the revolving striaa, in crossing the ribs, appear 
 undulated; aperture small, oval, a little angled at the base. 
 Color dark brown, without bands. 

6 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Dimensions. — Length 19 mill., diam. 6-5 mill. 

HaUtat. — Georgia. 

My Cabinet. 

Observations. — ^This species belongs to the great group of tu- 
 berculate Goniobases so characteristic of the rivers of Georgia, 
 among which may be named G.Etoivahensis, inclinans,pa2nllosa, 
 PosteUii, &G. It differs from all of them by its crisp, rigid ap- 
 pearance. It resembles somewhat, in form, G. porrecta, Lea, 
 but is well distinguished by being a little wider, and by the 
 striaB being undulated above. 

LYMNJEID^. 

5. Physa conifoemis, Tryon. — t. 2, f. 5. 

Description. — Shell obovate or somewhat cone-shaped, the 
 spire very short, with an acute, black-tipped apex ; body 
 whorl round, shouldered above, inflated, but becoming nar- 
 rower below, while the long, somewhat ear-shaped aperture is 
 broadly rounded below, causing the shell to resemble strikingly 
 in outline, Conns tulipa, Linn.; whorls 5, the first ones minute; 
 suture well impressed, lines of growth close and fine, surface 
 polished, texture moderately thin, translucent. Color greyish- 
 white, the lip slightly thickened and colored red ; columella 
 appressed, twisted and turned back at base, very much as in 
 Ph. venusia, Lea, or Ph. diaphana, nob. 

Dimensions. — Length 16 mill., diam, 9*5 mill., length of 
 aperture 12 mill. 

Eahitat.—Rnmholdi Eiver, Oregon, (W. M. Gabb.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of Wm. M. Gabb. 

Ohservations. — A very distinct species, of which I possess 
 several specimens. It is well separated from all the nume- 
 rous species inhabiting the Pacific States, by its peculiar form; 
 the color, also, is rather unusual. 

6. Physa oleacea, Tryon.— t. 2, f. 6. 

Description.— ^\\c\\ completely oval, with the outline of the 
 spire not elevated above a continuation of the general curve 
 of the body ; spire very short, apex minute, suture linear, but 
 margined ; whorls 4, rapidly increasing, the last large, nar- 
 rowly oval ; aperture long and narrow, the lip much thickened 
 within; columellar lip heavy, polished, slightly twisted and 
 turned back ; texture thin, diaphanous, surface almost un- 
 marked by growth-lines, brilliantly polished, and bright oil- 
 colored; columella tinged with pink, lip margined with dark 
 red. 

OF CONCHOLOQY. *l 

Dimensions. — Length 12 mill., diam. 7 mill. 

Habitat — Bridgeport, Ala., (Charles M. Wheatley.) 
 Lake Superior, (Jos. Leidy, M. D.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of Mr. C. M. Wheatley, Phcenixville, 
 Penna. Cabinet of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Phila- 
 delphia. 

Observations. — This species, of which I have seen nume- 
 rous examples, of all ages, is much shorter in the spire, more 
 oval, and differently colored from Ph. [jyrina, Say. Pit,, hrevi- 
 sjjira, Lea, is differently colored and more inflated, and finally, 
 Ph. Primeana, nob., is a smaller species, with distinct stride, 
 longer spire, and more inflated. It is, I think, the most beau- 
 tiful species of the genus yet detected in the United States, 

New Localities for Pltysm. 

Physa brevispira, Lea. Buffalo, N. Y. W. S. Nason. 
 (Smithsonian Collection.) 

" NiAGARENSis, Lea. Grrand Eapids, Mich. C. M. 

Wheatley. (Coll. Wheatley and Tryon.) 

" Grosven-qrii, Lea, Dayton, Nevada. C. M. Wheat- 
 ley. (Coll. Wheatley and Tryon.) 

" PARVA, Lea. Little Valley, Nevada. C. M. Wheat- 
 ley. (Coll. Wheatley and Tryon.) 

" Whitet, Lea. Chattahoochie Eiver, Columbus, Geo 
 (Coll. Wheatley and Tryon.) 

" GYRINA, Say, Carson, Nevada. C. M. Wheatley. 
 (Coll. Wheatley and Tryon.) 

This is a very large variety, distinguished by an 
 unpolished epidermis, and rough, coarse growth- 
 lines. 

" INTEGRA, Hald. Rhode Island. (Coll. Tryon.) 

I am not aware of this species having been no- 
 ticed until now, in any other locality, except that 
 of the description, Indiana, 

•'* NiAGAREXSis, Lea. Lake Superior. Joseph Leidy; 
 M. D. (Coll. Tryon.) 

This species nlay prove to be only a variety of 
 i7itef/ra, Hald. 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW EXOTIC FRESH-WATER 
 MOLLUSCA. 

BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 

1. ViviPARA SUPRAFASCIATA, Trjon. — t. 2, f. 7. 

Description. — Globose-conic, inflated, rather thin ; spire ele- 
 vated-conic, suture deeply impressed; whorls 5, very convex, 
 the last large, with very fine growth- lines, obsolete revolving 
 lines and slight malleations; umbilicus small, the shell sub 
 angular around it ; aperture obliquely oval. Eather a bril- 
 liant green, with the spire, and body whorl above the aperture, 
 traversed by dark green narrow bands, five or six in number, 
 which are disposed to be alternately narrower. 

Dimensions. — Length 25 mill., diam. 20 mill. 

Sahitat. — Tropical Australia. 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 
 Philadelphia. 

Observations. — This species in the general form reminds 
 one of V. contecta, Millet, or of V. intertexta, Say. From V. 
 Australis, Eeeve, it is easily distinguished. That species is 
 narrower, appressed above, with only a few distant brown 
 lines, and the whorls are not so globose. It does not answer 
 at all to the description of V. Waterhousei, recently described 
 from Australia. 

2. Hemisinus Binneyi, Tryon. — t. 2, f. 8. 

Descrijytion. — Shell ovate, somewhat thin; spire moderately 
 elevated, apex obtuse, suture well impressed; whorls 5, a little 
 convex, the last large, smooth; aperture more than half the 
 length of the shell, angulate above and below, columella 
 curved, slightly notched at the base. Bright olive, with four 
 darker bands, of which the second is widest, and about fifteen 
 revolving rows of small, numerous, transverse dark red dots; 
 bands red within the aperture. 

Dimensions. — Length 13 mill., diam. 7 mill. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. M 

ffahitat. — New Grenada, (Wm. G. Binney.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 
