
'>':¥/. 

^'^^■< '^ 

>. j^^ 

MJ^l 

M \ ^^ 

^<:i0' 

S:^y' 

HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 

OF THE 
 MUSEUM OF COMPARATIVE ZOOLOGY 

i 

AMERICAN 

JOUMAL OF CONCHOLOGY. 

VOLUME II. 

EDITED BY 

GEORGE W. TRYON, JR., 

Memliei- of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; Coiresponding Member of the 

Boston Society of Natural History, the New York Lyceum of Natural History, 

the California Academy of Natural Sciences, the Zoological-Botanical 

Society of Vienna, &c. 

CONTAINING- ARTICLES BY 

WESLEY NEWCOMB, M. D., WM. M. fiARB, O. A L MORCH 

E. MICHENER, M. D., JOHX G ANTHONY, H. CKOSSE 

THOMAS BLAND, W. HARPER PEASE, F DAHLTE 

T. A. CONRAD, P. P. CARPENTER, And the Editor. 

ILLUSTRATED BY 27 COLORED AND PLAiN PLATES. 

PHILADELPHIA : 
 George W. Tuyon, Jr., 625 Market Street. 

NEW YORK: BOSTON: 

Baii.liere Brothers, No. 520 Broadway. Little, Bkown & Co. 

LONDON: 

Trubner & Co., No. 60 Paternoster Row 

TARIS: MADRID: 

J B, Bailliere et Fils, Rue Hautefemlle. C. Baillt-Bailliere, Calle del Principe. 

BERLIN : 

AsnER & Co., No. 20 Unter d. Linden. 

1866. 

Part 1 published Jaimaiy 1st, l>i<6<6. 
 " 2 " April 1st, 

" 3 " July 1st, 

"4 •• Uctuber t)th. " 

CONTENTS. 

Part 1— January 1st, 1866. 

1. Description of a New American Species of Helix. By 

Wesley Newcomb, M. D 1 

2. On an Abnormal Specimen of Planorbis bicarinatus. 

By George W. Tryon, Jr 3 

3. Descriptions of New Fresh-Water Shells of the United 

States. By George W. Tryou, Jr 4 

4. Descriptions of New Exotic Fresh-Water MoUusca. 

By George W. Tryon, Jr 8 

5. Description of a New Species of Rissoa. By George W. 

Tryou, Jr 13 

6. Addition to " Catalogue of Helices Inhabiting the West 

Coast of North America, North of Cape St. Lucas." 

By Wesley Newcomb, M. D 13 

i 7. Monograph of the Family Strepomatidse. (Continued.) 

By George W. Tryon, Jr 14 

8. Note on Helix rufa, DeKay. By E. Michener, M. D 53 

9. Remarks on the Origin and Distribution of the Opercu- 

lated Land Shells which inhabit the Continent of 
 America and the West Indies, with a Catalogue of 
 the American Species. By Thomas Bland 54 

10. Note on the Internal Structure of Megaspira. By Thomas 

Bland 64 

11. Illustrations of Miocene Fossils, with Descriptions of 

New Species. By T. A. Conrad 65 

12. Note on the Genus Gadus, with Descriptions of some 

New Genera and Species of American Fossil Shells. 
 By T. A. Conrad 75 

13. Descriptions of New Species of Australian Fresh- Water 

Shells. By T. A. Conrad 79 

14. Note on Mr. Pease's Species of Polynesian Phanero- 

pneumona. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr 82 

15. On the Modern Classification of Mollusks. By O. A. L. 

Morch 83 

IG. Reply to Mr. Conrad's Criticism on Mr. Gabb's ''Report 

on the Palsentology of California." By Wm. M. Gabb. 87 

EDITOR'S TABLE. 
 Reviews y 93 

^TOmca«,.— Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences. 
 Foreign.— Journal de Conchy liologie, &c. 
 Scientific Intelligence 9G 

ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Portrait of Dr. Wesley Newcomb, with Autograph. 
 Three Colored and Two Plain Plates. iii. 

Part 2— April 1st, 1866. 

I. Further Observations on Mr. Gabb's Palaeontology of 

California. By T. A. Conrad 97 

2. Observations on Recent and Fossil Shells, with proposed 

new Genera and Species. By T. A. Conrad 101 

3. Descriptions of new Species of Tertiary, Cretaceous and 

Recent Shells. By T. A. Conrad 104 

4. Description of a new Species of Unio. By T. A. Conrad... 107 

5. Description of a new Species of Vivipara. By George W. 

Tryon, Jr 108 

6. Descriptions of new Fluviatile MoUusca. By George W. 

Tryon, Jr Ill 

7. Observations on an Abnormal Specimen of Physa gyrina. 

By George W. Tryon, Jr 114 

8. Monograph of the family Strepomatidse, (concluded.; By 

George W. Tryon, Jr 115 

9. Note on the Lingual Dentition of the Strepomatidse. By 

George W. Tryon, Jr 134 

10. Remarks on the Origin and Distribution of the Opercu- 

lated Land Shells which inhabit the Continent of 
 North America and the West Indies, (continued.) By 
 Thomas Bland 136 

II. Descriptions of new American Fresh- water Shells. By 

John G. Anthony 144 

EDITOR'S TABLE. 

Reviews and Summary of Conchological Publications 148 

American. — Review of the Northern Buccinums, by Dr. Wm. Stimp- 
 son. — Reprint of Conchological Papers, by Isaac Lea. — List of 
 Brachiopoda from the Island of Anticosti. by"N. S. Shaler.— Stimp- 
 son's Researches upon the Hydrobiinre. — Proceedings of the Acad- 
 emy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. — Morse's new Species of 
 Pupadaj. — Notes on Terrestrial Mollusca, with Descriptions of new 
 Species, by Thomas Bland. — Reperterio fisico-natural de la Isla 
 de Cuba. 

Foreir/)i..- — Conchologia Iconica. — Further Reports on Shetland 
 Dredgings, by J Gwyn Jeffreys. — Transactions of the Linnsan 
 Society. — British Conchology, Vol. 8, by Jeffreys. 

Malacologie d'Aix les Bains, Monographie du genre Paladilhia, et Moit- 
 essieria, MolUisques de la Sahara, by J. R. Bourguignat.— Journal 
 de Conchyliologie. — Revue et Magazin de Zoologie. — Malacologie 
 de la Grande-Cliartreuse, by Bourguignat. — Malacologie de I'Al 
 gerie, by Bourguignat.— 13 ulletin de I'Academie Imp. des Sciences 
 de St Petersburg. — Annales des Sciences Naturelles. 

Monographia Pneumonopomorum Viventium.— Ueber die Familie der 
 Rissoiden, by Mohrenstern. — Novitates Conchologicse, Dy Pfeiffer, 
 Dunker and Romer.— Archiv. fur Naturgeschichte. 

Ofversigt af Kongl. Votenskaps Akademiens Forhandlingar, &c. 

Scientific Intelligence 179 

On the Anatomy of Tridacna elongata, by Leon Vaillant.— On the 
 correct Application of Certain Terms used in the Descrijition of 
 Shells, by A. A. Gould, M.D.— Curious Distortion in the Shell of 
 Physa heterostropha. — Remarks on the Habits of Spirialis Flem- 
 ingii, by Alex. Agassiz. — Collection of Shells for Sale. — Report of 
 the Conchologicai Committee of the Academy of Natural Sciences. 
 —Address of the Building-fund Committee of the Academy of Na- 
 tural Sciences, etc. 

Obituary 189 

Lovell Reeve.— M. Valenciennes.— Bouchara-Chautercaux. 

ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Portrait of John G. Anthony, with Autograph. 
 Three Colored and Four Plain Plates. 

Part 3— July 1st, 1866. 

1. Descriptions of New Species of Par tula, Inhabiting the 

Tahitian Archipelago. By W. Harper Pease 193 

2. Remarks on Nudibranchiata inhabiting the Pacific Isl- 

ands, with Descriptions of two New Genera. By W. 
 Harper Pease 304 

3. Descriptions of Achatinellse. By Wesley Newcomb, M. D... 209 

4. Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United 

States. By George W. Trj-on, Jr oig 

1. Preface. 

2. Introduction. 

3. Descriptions of Species. 

4. Reference to Plates and Synonymy. 

5. Descriptions of American Fresh-water Shells. By T. A. 

Conrad 278 

C. Descriptions of New Marine Bivalve Shells. By T. A. 

Conrad 280 

EDITOR'S TABLE. 
 Reviews 283 

American. — Proceedings of the Essex Institute.— Transactions of the 
 Academy of Science of St. Louis.— Annals of the New lork Ly- 
 ceum of Natural History.— Bi'own's Catalogue of Shells.— Note 
 on the affinities of Bellerophontid;!?, by F. B. Meek. 
 i^;m/77?..— Tate's Land and Fresh-water Mollusks of Great Britain.— 
 Conchologia Iconica, etc. 

Obituary 2gg 

Cantraine — Poulson. 

ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Portrait of Prof. S. S. Haldeman, with Autograph. 
 Three Colored and Four Plain Plates. 

VI. CONTENTS. 

Part 4— October 1st, 1866. 

1. Descriptions of New Species of Land Shells inhabiting 

Polynesia. By Willhuu Harper Pease 289 

2. A Well-abused Mollusk. By H. Crosse. (Translated by 

Frank Danlte 294 

3. Description of a New Species of Columna. By George W. 

Tryon, Jr 297 

4. Descriptions of New Species of Melaniidse and Melano- 

pidse. By George W. Trj^on, Jr 299 

5. Description of a New Species of Septifer. By George "W. 

Tryon, Jr 302 

6. Description of a New Species of Helix. By George W. 

Tryon, Jr .^. 303 

7. On the Terrestrial Mollusca of the Guano Island of 

Navassa. By George W. Tryon, Jr 304 

8. Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United 

States. CContiuued.) By George W. Tryon, Jr 306 

9. On a Species of Helix from California, supposed to be 

New. By William H. Ball 328 

10. Descriptions of Three New Species of Land Shells from 

Arizona. By William M. Gabb 330 

11. On the Acm88id83 of the Vancouver and California pro- 

vince. By P. P. Carpenter 332 

13. Remarks on the Distribution of the Inoperculated Land 

Shells which inhabit the Continent of America and 

the West Indies. By Thomas Bland 349 

13. Descriptions of New Species of North American Land 

Shells. By Thomas Bland 371 

EDITOR'S TABLE. 

Reviews and Svimmary of Conchological Publications 37.5 

American. — Conchological Notes, by Ball.— Proceedings of the Philadel- 
 phia Academy of Natural Sciences.— American Journal of Science 
 and Arts. 

i^r>?-<??'(7».— Proceedings of the Zoological Society, London. — Conchologia 
 Iconica, by L Reeve. 

Journal de Conchyliologic. 

Scientific Intelligence 384 

Museum of Comparative Zoology, at Cambridge, Mass.— Building 
 Fund of the Academy of Natural Sciences, &c 

ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Portrait of Thomas Bland, with Autograph. 
 Two Colored and Two Plain Plates. 

LIST OF AUTHORS, 

AND THEIE CONTRIBUTIONS. 

Anthony, John G. 

Page. 

Descriptions of New American Fresh-water Shells, - - 144 

Bland, Thomas. 

Remarks on the Origin and Distribution of the Operculated 
 and Inoperculated Land Shells which Inhabit the Continent 
 of America and the West Indies, with a Catalogue of the 
 American Species, - - - - - - -54, 136, 349 

Note on the Internal Structure of Megaspira, ... 64 

Descriptions of New Species of North American Laud Shells, 371 

Carpenter, P. P. 

On the Acmgeidse of the Vancouver and Californian Province, 332 

Conrad, T. A. 

Illustrations of Miocene Fossils, with Descriptions of New Spe- 

cies, - - . 65 

Note on the Genus Gadus, with Descriptions of some New 

Genera and Species of American Fossil Shells, - - 75 

Descriptions of New Species of Australian Fresh-water Shells, 79 
 Further Observations on Mr. Gabb's Palaeontology of California, 97 
 Observations on Recent and Fossil Shells, with Proposed New 

Genera and Species, - - 101 

Descriptions of New Species of Tertiary, Cretaceous and Re- 
 cent Shells, - - - 104 

Description of a New Species of Unio, . . - . 107 
 Descriptions of American Fresh-water Shells, - - - 278 
 Descriptions of New Marine Bivalve Shells, ... 280 

Crosse, H. 

A Well-abused MoUusk, - - 394 

.vm. LIST OF AUTHORS, ETC. 

Ball, William H. 

On :i Species of Helix from California, supposed to be New, 328 

Daulte, Frank. 

A Well-abused Mollusk. (Translated from the French of H. 

Crosse ) - 394 

Gabb, William M. 

Reply to Mr. Conrad's Criticism on Mr. Gabb's "Report on the 

Palaeontology of California, ------ 87 

Descriptions of Three New Species of Land Sliells from Arizona, 330 

Morch, 0. A. L. 

On the Modern Classification of Mollusks, - - . . 83 

Newcomb, Wesley, M. D. 

Description of a New American Species of Helix, - - 1 

Addition to "Catalogue of Helices Inhabiting the West Coast 

of North America, North of Cape St. Lucas," - - 13 

Descriptions of Achatinellfe, - 209 

Pease, William Harper. 

Descriptions of New Species of Partula, Inhabiting the Tahitian 
 Archipelago, --------- 193 

Remarks on Nudibranchiata Inhabiting the Pacific Islands, with 

Descriptions of Two New Geuera, - - - - 204 

Descriptions of New Species of Land Shells, Inhabiting Poly- 
 nesia, --..---.-. 289 

Try on, George W., Jr. 

On an Abnormal Specimen of Planorbis bicarinatus, - - 3 

Descriptions of New Fresh-water Shells of the United States, 4 

Descriptions of New Exotic Fresh-water Mollusca, - - 8 

Description of a New Species of Rissoa, - - - - 12 

Monograph of the Family Strepomatidte, - - - - 14, 115 

Note on Mr. Pease's Species of Polynesian Phaneropneumona, 82 

Description of a New Species of Vivipara, - - - - 108 

Descriptions of New Fluviatile Mollusca, . - - - 111 

Observations on an Abnormal Specimen of Physa gyrina, - 114 

Note on the Lingual Dentition of the Strepomatidfe, - - 134 

Monograph of Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States, 218, 306 

Description of a New Species of Columna, - - - - 297 

Descriptions of New Species of Melaniidas and Melanopidge, 299 

Description of a New Species of Septifer, - - - - 302 

Description of a New Species of Helix, - - - - 303 

On the Terrestrial Mollusca of the Guano Island of Navassa, 304 

Published Quarterly, at $3 per No., or $10 per Annum. 

Vol. -i. X*ai-t 1, 

AMERICA N , 
 joxjKisrAL 

COIN'CHOLOG-Y 

^re.xivLebi"37- 1, isee. 

EDITED BY 

G^EOR^GJ^E "W^. TI2,^ir01V, Jr. 

Member of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; Corresponding Member of the Boston 

Society of Natural History, the New York Lyoeutn of Natural History, 

the California Academy of Natural Sciences, &c. 

PHILADELPHIA : 
 George W. Tryon, Jr., C35 Market Street. 

NEW YORK : BOSTOJf : 

Baili.iebe Brothers, No. 520 Broadway. Little, BrowS & Co. 

PARIS: MADRID: 

J. B. Bailliere et Fils, Rue Hautefeuille. C. Baillt-Baillieke, Calle del Principe. 

BERLIN: 
 ASHER it Co., No. 20 Unter d. Linden. 

Yeakel & Beo., Printers, 23 N. Sixth St 

'^ 

(Jo... uoLOGiSTsor Dealers having FRESH WATER SHELLS 
 from any part of the world, for sale or exchange, will please for- 
 ward Catalogues of species and prices, to 

CHARLES M. WHEATLEY, 
 Jan. 1805, (\y ) Phcenixville, Pennsylva nia. 

625 M^KKET BTREET, 

PHILADEPHIA, U. S. 

I offer to Couchologists and Collectors, to exchange any of my 
 publications, including the ''American Journal of Gonchology;' and 
 also my duplicate shells, for their memoirs ;m Conchological sub- 
 jects C" *"-- ar.,.pimpn^ 

Id. 
 quest 
 with ] 

My 
 dispot 
 very ] 
 theU 

NAi 
 e-x cluing 

CONC 
 cau .Icmi 

D1RE( 
 above, V 

JttljrariJ of tlje gtuscum 

OF 

COMPARATIYE ZOOLOGY, 

AT HARVARD COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, MASS. 
 iFountietr hv prfbatc suliscriptfon, fn 1861. 

Deposited by Louis Agassiz. 

re- 
 rues 

will 
 1 at 
 and 
 ites. 

Vmeri- 

vVaxlnngtiia, u. v^., • 
 foUowiug booksellers :—G.Bo»sange & Co., Paris. 

au,l f^-rward their pacb^geMooUl^i^oyh.^ PHternoiter Row. LonUon. 
 ^t^S'co'^.re^plfua'e^UcLfoTrardhea^y packages by express or rail. Light packages can 
 forwarded by mail. 

AMERICAN JOURNAL OF CONCHOLOGY. 

VOL. I.-1865. 

edges, at $1^). 

above, at $l'i 

To those who subscribe to Vol. 11., the First Volume will be furnished at $10, or bound as 


/h,Jz 

'C'ou-Ofyix 

TVom a photograph for theAmen can Journal of C'oncholo^'y. 

i&Co-Uthl'lnlada.. 

AM E H I C A. N" 

JOURNAL OF CONCHOLOGY. 

YoL. II. JANUARY 1, 1866. No. 1. 

DESCRIPTION OP A NEW AMERICAN SPECIES OP 
 HELIX. 

BY WESLEY NEWCOMB, M. D. 

Helix Idahoexsis, Newcomb. — t. 1, f. 1, 2, 3. 

Description. — H, testa profunde umbilicata, tiirbinato-con- 
 oidea, corneo-cinerea, apice obtusa; anfr. 5 rotundatis, qiiarum 
 duobus primis laevibus vel minute oblique striatis, reliquis 
 forte costatis; costis in anfr. ultimo 20 ad 26, albis; sutura 
 bene impressa; apertura perobliqua, rotundata, que peristo- 
 mate integro, simplici, non-reflexo. 

Dimensions. — Diam. major '525 pol., minor '^o pol., axis '45' 
 pol. 

Locality. — Between Idaho Citj and Cour d'Alene Mining 
 District, Idaho Territory, (Hv Hemphill.) 

Shell deeply umbilicate, turbinately conic, ashy horn-color, 
 apex obtuse; whorls 5, rounded, the first two smooth, or mi- 
 nutely obliquely striated, the remainder strongly ribbed trans- 
 versely, numbering on the last whorl 20 to 26, of a clear white 
 color; suture well impressed; aperture very oblique and. cir- 
 cular; lip entire, simple, not reflected. 

2 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of George W. Trjon, Jr. 

Olservations. — I know of no Helix witli which this species 
 can be compared. H. cryptojjortica, Pfr., has comparatively 
 more and finer ribs, with the shell of quite a distinct form. 
 In the character of the ribs, standing out prominently on a 
 ground of a darker color, the contrast and general appearance 
 reminds one of some species of Scalaria. The nearest approach 
 of any terrestrial species with which I am acquainted, in this 
 respect, is Bulimus Fairhanki, Pfr., from Bombay. 

The rounded whorls, circular mouth and strong ribs mark 
 a new type of the genus for America. 

OP CONCnOLOGT. 

ON AN ABNORMAL SPECIMEN OP PLANORBIS 
 BICARINATUS. 

BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 

Plate 1, Fig. 4. 

The shell figured, is in the collection of Charles M. Wheat- 
 ley, Esq., of Phoenisville, Pa., and was collected by him at 
 Mexico, Owego Co., N. Y. It has assumed a turbinate and 
 scalariform shape, the spire being obtusely elevated, whorls 
 very convex, with deep suture, and the upper carina strongly 
 developed ; at the base it is narrowly umbilicate, the umbilical 
 region small, and bounded by the lower carina; the aperture 
 is small, ovate, somewhat expanded, and much thickened 
 within ; owing to compression, the two extremities of the lip 
 join upon the body, and are turned into the aperture, forming 
 a strong rib, which revolves within the shell. 

Numerous abnormal European Planorbes are illustrated in 
 Hartmann's magnificent work, "Erd und Slisswasser Gastero- 
 poden der Schweiz," but the species are all small ones. This 
 is the first American specimen which we have observed to de- 
 viate much from the normal form; reversed or scalariform 
 shells being very much rarer in America than in Europe. 
 Some of our species of Limnsea are sometimes slightly scalari- 
 form, and in the Viviparidse this is more frequent, but the de- 
 viation has never been observed to be very great. Melantho 
 Integra and decisa are both occasionally met with, reversed. I 
 believe that no scalariform Helix has been observed in the 
 United States, and the reversed specimens known do not ex- 
 ceed ten or twelve.* 

* See " Note on Variation in Species of Helix in Eastern North America," 
 in " Remarks on Certain Species of- North American Helicidae," by Thos. 
 Bland.- -Annals of the Lyceum of Nat. Hist., New York, VII , 1863. 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

DESCRIPTIONS OP NEW FRESH-WATER SHELLS 
 OF THE UNITED STATES. 

BY GEORGE W. TRYOX, JR. 

STEEP0MATIDJ5. 

1. AxGiTREMA Wheatleyi, Trjon. — t. 2, £ 1. 

Description. — Shell conoidal; inflated, rather thin; spire 
 conical, sharp pointed, suture not much impressed; whorls 
 about 6, those of the spire flattened, the body whorl large, 
 rather flattened above the somewhat angled periphery, convex 
 below, and somewhat attenuate at the base; the periphery is 
 ornamented with a single prominent row of slightly com- 
 pressed tubercles, and above is rugosely wrinkled, with a 
 tendency towards tuberculation ; aperture large, sub-rhom- 
 boidal, iialf the length of the shell, somewhat attenuate below, 
 columella nearly perpendicular, a little twisted. Bright horn- 
 color, with four broad, equidistant brown bands. 

Dimensions. — Length 25 mill., diam. 16 mill. 
 HaUtat.—E\]^ River, at Winchester, Tenn., (C. M. Wheat- 
 ley.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of Charles M. Wheatley. 

Ohservations. — This species is much more inflated, and has 
 more numerous tubercles than A. Duttoniana, Lea; it is in 
 appearance more like an obese variety of A. verrucosa, Raf., 
 but that species is heavier in texture, and has several rows of 
 tubercles. The Avell-developed tubercles and inferiorly con- 
 tracted aperture will readily distinguish this species from Li- 
 thasia fuliginosa, Lea. 

2. Pleurocera bicinctum, Tryon. — t. 2, f. 2. 

Description. — Shell elevated conical, somewhat cylindrical, 
 thick, smooth and shining; spire elevated, obtuse, suture dis- 
 tinctly but not deeply impressed; whorls about 6, somewhat 
 flattened, the last with an angular periphery, which is cari- 
 nate, and a second carina, less distinct, below it; lines of 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 5 

growth crowded, curved ; aperture rhomboidal, rather narrow, 
 terminating in a contracted fuse, outer lip very sinuous, 
 curving forward towards the base, columeUa short and rounded. 
 Bright olive-green, nearly orange beneath the suture; aper- 
 ture and columella purple. 

Dimensions. — Length (eroded) 19 mill., diam. 10 mill. 

Sahitat. — Bridgeport, Ala., (W. H. DeCamp.) 

Cabinet of Charles M. Wheatlj, Phoenixville, Penna. 

Observations. — This species is closely allied to PI. aratimi. 
 Lea, but differs in the position of the carina?, the form of the 
 aperture, etc. I do not know any other species with which it 
 can be compared. I have seen only one individual, but the 
 differences it exhibits are too marked to permit it to remain 
 uncharacterized. 

3. EuEYC^LOX Leah, Tryon. — t. 2, f. 3. 

Description. — Shell conical, thick, shining; spire conical, 
 obtusely elevated, suture moderately impressed; whorls about 
 6, slightly convex, everywhere covered with very fine close 
 revolving strige, somewhat shouldered beneath the suture and 
 crimped, body whorl large, slopingly convex ; aperture large, 
 ovate, broad below. Wax-yellow or somewhat olivaceous, 
 lighter beneath the the suture, Avhite within. 

Dimensions. — Length (eroded) 19 mill., diam. 13 mill. 

Habitat. — Etowah Kiver, Cartersville, Geo., (W. II. DeCamp.) 

Cabinet of Charles M. Wheatley, Phoenixville, Penna, 

Observations. — This species is somewhat like Gon. luteola, 
 Lea, in color, strife and texture, but differs in having tuber- 
 cles, and in the form of the aperture. In G. per grata, Lea, the 
 striiB are coarser, and the tuberculations wanting. It is a 
 very neat species, beautifully marked by the narrowly com- 
 pressed numerous tubercles under the suture, and its close, 
 waved revolving strife. 

4, GoNiOBASis UJSTDULATA, Tryon. — t. 2, f. -l. 

Description. — Shell turrited, narrow, moderately thick; spire 
 much elevated, acute, suture deeply impressed; whorls 9 to 10, 
 somewhat convex, sloping, carinate just above the suture, with 
 faint plications above the carina, crossed by raised revolving 
 stria?, which extend over all the whorls, and number 9 on the 
 body whorl ; the revolving striaa, in crossing the ribs, appear 
 undulated; aperture small, oval, a little angled at the base. 
 Color dark brown, without bands. 

6 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Dimensions. — Length 19 mill., diam. 6-5 mill. 

HaUtat. — Georgia. 

My Cabinet. 

Observations. — ^This species belongs to the great group of tu- 
 berculate Goniobases so characteristic of the rivers of Georgia, 
 among which may be named G.Etoivahensis, inclinans,pa2nllosa, 
 PosteUii, &G. It differs from all of them by its crisp, rigid ap- 
 pearance. It resembles somewhat, in form, G. porrecta, Lea, 
 but is well distinguished by being a little wider, and by the 
 striaB being undulated above. 

LYMNJEID^. 

5. Physa conifoemis, Tryon. — t. 2, f. 5. 

Description. — Shell obovate or somewhat cone-shaped, the 
 spire very short, with an acute, black-tipped apex ; body 
 whorl round, shouldered above, inflated, but becoming nar- 
 rower below, while the long, somewhat ear-shaped aperture is 
 broadly rounded below, causing the shell to resemble strikingly 
 in outline, Conns tulipa, Linn.; whorls 5, the first ones minute; 
 suture well impressed, lines of growth close and fine, surface 
 polished, texture moderately thin, translucent. Color greyish- 
 white, the lip slightly thickened and colored red ; columella 
 appressed, twisted and turned back at base, very much as in 
 Ph. venusia, Lea, or Ph. diaphana, nob. 

Dimensions. — Length 16 mill., diam, 9*5 mill., length of 
 aperture 12 mill. 

Eahitat.—Rnmholdi Eiver, Oregon, (W. M. Gabb.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of Wm. M. Gabb. 

Ohservations. — A very distinct species, of which I possess 
 several specimens. It is well separated from all the nume- 
 rous species inhabiting the Pacific States, by its peculiar form; 
 the color, also, is rather unusual. 

6. Physa oleacea, Tryon.— t. 2, f. 6. 

Description.— ^\\c\\ completely oval, with the outline of the 
 spire not elevated above a continuation of the general curve 
 of the body ; spire very short, apex minute, suture linear, but 
 margined ; whorls 4, rapidly increasing, the last large, nar- 
 rowly oval ; aperture long and narrow, the lip much thickened 
 within; columellar lip heavy, polished, slightly twisted and 
 turned back ; texture thin, diaphanous, surface almost un- 
 marked by growth-lines, brilliantly polished, and bright oil- 
 colored; columella tinged with pink, lip margined with dark 
 red. 

OF CONCHOLOQY. *l 

Dimensions. — Length 12 mill., diam. 7 mill. 

Habitat — Bridgeport, Ala., (Charles M. Wheatley.) 
 Lake Superior, (Jos. Leidy, M. D.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of Mr. C. M. Wheatley, Phcenixville, 
 Penna. Cabinet of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Phila- 
 delphia. 

Observations. — This species, of which I have seen nume- 
 rous examples, of all ages, is much shorter in the spire, more 
 oval, and differently colored from Ph. [jyrina, Say. Pit,, hrevi- 
 sjjira, Lea, is differently colored and more inflated, and finally, 
 Ph. Primeana, nob., is a smaller species, with distinct stride, 
 longer spire, and more inflated. It is, I think, the most beau- 
 tiful species of the genus yet detected in the United States, 

New Localities for Pltysm. 

Physa brevispira, Lea. Buffalo, N. Y. W. S. Nason. 
 (Smithsonian Collection.) 

" NiAGARENSis, Lea. Grrand Eapids, Mich. C. M. 

Wheatley. (Coll. Wheatley and Tryon.) 

" Grosven-qrii, Lea, Dayton, Nevada. C. M. Wheat- 
 ley. (Coll. Wheatley and Tryon.) 

" PARVA, Lea. Little Valley, Nevada. C. M. Wheat- 
 ley. (Coll. Wheatley and Tryon.) 

" Whitet, Lea. Chattahoochie Eiver, Columbus, Geo 
 (Coll. Wheatley and Tryon.) 

" GYRINA, Say, Carson, Nevada. C. M. Wheatley. 
 (Coll. Wheatley and Tryon.) 

This is a very large variety, distinguished by an 
 unpolished epidermis, and rough, coarse growth- 
 lines. 

" INTEGRA, Hald. Rhode Island. (Coll. Tryon.) 

I am not aware of this species having been no- 
 ticed until now, in any other locality, except that 
 of the description, Indiana, 

•'* NiAGAREXSis, Lea. Lake Superior. Joseph Leidy; 
 M. D. (Coll. Tryon.) 

This species nlay prove to be only a variety of 
 i7itef/ra, Hald. 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW EXOTIC FRESH-WATER 
 MOLLUSCA. 

BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 

1. ViviPARA SUPRAFASCIATA, Trjon. — t. 2, f. 7. 

Description. — Globose-conic, inflated, rather thin ; spire ele- 
 vated-conic, suture deeply impressed; whorls 5, very convex, 
 the last large, with very fine growth- lines, obsolete revolving 
 lines and slight malleations; umbilicus small, the shell sub 
 angular around it ; aperture obliquely oval. Eather a bril- 
 liant green, with the spire, and body whorl above the aperture, 
 traversed by dark green narrow bands, five or six in number, 
 which are disposed to be alternately narrower. 

Dimensions. — Length 25 mill., diam. 20 mill. 

Sahitat. — Tropical Australia. 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 
 Philadelphia. 

Observations. — This species in the general form reminds 
 one of V. contecta, Millet, or of V. intertexta, Say. From V. 
 Australis, Eeeve, it is easily distinguished. That species is 
 narrower, appressed above, with only a few distant brown 
 lines, and the whorls are not so globose. It does not answer 
 at all to the description of V. Waterhousei, recently described 
 from Australia. 

2. Hemisinus Binneyi, Tryon. — t. 2, f. 8. 

Descrijytion. — Shell ovate, somewhat thin; spire moderately 
 elevated, apex obtuse, suture well impressed; whorls 5, a little 
 convex, the last large, smooth; aperture more than half the 
 length of the shell, angulate above and below, columella 
 curved, slightly notched at the base. Bright olive, with four 
 darker bands, of which the second is widest, and about fifteen 
 revolving rows of small, numerous, transverse dark red dots; 
 bands red within the aperture. 

Dimensions. — Length 13 mill., diam. 7 mill. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. M 

ffahitat. — New Grenada, (Wm. G. Binney.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 
 Philadelphia. 

Observations. — This species is nearly related in form and 
 coloring to H. aspersns, Eeeve, from Brazil {=oscuIaii, Villa), 
 but the latter is spirally grooved, and is a more solid, ventri- 
 cose shell. 

3. Physa (Isidora) Hainesii, Tryon. — t. 2, f. 9. 

Description. — Shell ovate, ventricose, moderately thick (for 
 the genus); spire short, acute, suture very deeply impressed; 
 whorls 3 to 4, very rapidly enlarging, extremely convex, the 
 last bulbous, with very fine epidermal revolving lines; aper- 
 ture broadly oval, well rounded above and below, columella 
 lip almost equally curved with the outer one; a heavy callous 
 deposit on the columella causes a continuous peritreme. Lighl 
 horn-color. 

Dimensions. — -Length 9*5 mill., diam. 7 mill. 

^«&/^a^.— Australia, (W. Newcomb, M. D.) India ? ( W. A. 
 Haines.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of W. A. Haines, New York. Cabi- 
 net of Wesley Newcomb, M. D., Oakland, Cal. 

Observations. — I cannot identify this species among those 
 recently described from Australia, and its characters are so 
 distinct that it cannot easily be confounded with any other. I 
 am inclined to believe the locality India an error, because 
 among the shells submitted to me by Mr. Haines, were a num- 
 ber of Australian, as well as Indian species. 

4. Physa (Bulinus) acutispira, Tryon. — t. 2, f. 10. 

Description. — Shell cylindrically-ovate, elongated, very thin, 
 transparent, highly polished; spire elevated, very acute, suture 
 slightly impressed; whorls 5, oblique, slightly convex; aper- 
 ture narrow-ovate, two-thirds the total length, columella a little 
 folded, and s#mewhat turned back at the base. Very light 
 horn-color. 

Dimensions. — Length 12 mill., diam. 6 mill. 

Habitat. — Australia, (W. A: Haines.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of W. A. Haines, New York. 

Observations.— M.Q.y be compared to Bulinus hypnorum, Linn., 
 of Europe, or Ph. virginea, Gould, of Oregon. 

Among the species recently described in the "Zool. Proc. 
 of London," I find none with which this can be identified. 

10 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

6. Planorbis Esperanzensis, Trjon.— t. % f. 11, 12, 13. 

Description. — Shell small; whorls 3, high, obliquely convex 
 very closely revolving; spire somewhat sunken above, shallow 
 below ; aperture long and very narrow, oblique. Dark horn- 
 color, shining. 

Dimensions. — Axis 1-5 mill., diam. 3 mill. 

Habitat. — Esperanza, Cuba, (C. M. Wheatley.) 

My Collection. Collection of Charles M. Wheatley, Phoe- 
 nixville, Penna. 

Observations. — This curious little species came along with 
 PI. lucidus, Pfr., with which it has probably hitherto been 
 confounded. The lucidus is more wheel-shaped, much lighter 
 in color, and the whorls do not revolve nearly so close one 
 upon the other, consequently are all well exhibited, the spire 
 occupying half the diameter; whereas in Esperanzensis, it 
 does not comprise scarcely one-third. In the close revolution 
 of the whorls, this species resembles PI. contortus, Mich., of 
 Europe, and in its form it is strikingly like the Indian PI. 
 calathus, Bens. 

6. Planorbis (Planorbula) Berendtii, Tryon. — t. 2, f. 
 14, 15, 16. 

Description. — Shell smooth, consisting of three orbicular 
 volutions, increasing moderately in size; spire a little sunken, 
 suture very distinct, below a little more shallow than above, 
 but otherwise not differing; surface marked by growth-lines; 
 aperture oval, slightly dilated, not extending either above or 
 below, beyond the plane of the volutions, far within dentate, 
 namely on the lip, three narrow, small, equidistant transverse 
 lamella?, and below them one large perpendicular lamina; on 
 the body opposite, is a central curved transverse lamina, and 
 a smaller one below it. Very light horn-color. 

Dimensions. — Axis 2 mill., diam. 6 mill. 

Habitat. — Vera Cruz. Mexico, (Berendt.) 

Orizaba, Mexico, (Botteri.) ^ 

My Collection. Collection of Charles M. Wheatley, Phoe- 
 nixville, Penna. 

Observatio7is. — A little less in size than PI. armigerus, Say, 
 and externally not unlike it, except in the color being much 
 lighter, and the umbilicus much more shallow. The teeth are 
 arranged very much in the same manner as in armigerus. 

OP CONCnoLOGY. 11 

7. Lymnea Wilsonii, Tryou.— t. 2. f. 17. 

Description. — Shell sinistral, sub-fusiform, tliia ; spire elon- 
 gated, acute, suture deeply impressed ; whorls 6, convex, oblique, 
 rapidly increasing in size, the last narrowly oval ; aperture sub- 
 ovate, half the total length, narrow, columella a little twisted 
 and reflected, leaving a narrow, deep umbilicus. Light amber- 
 color. 

Dimensions. — Length 22 mill., diam. 10 mill. 

Habitat. — New Zealand. 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 
 Philadelphia. 

Observations. — This is one of the finest of the few sinistral 
 species. It may be compared with L. Timorensis, but that is 
 a heavier species, more rugose, with the spire more obtuse, 
 and not so convex. 

Dedicated to the memory of the late Dr. Thomas B. 
 Wilson. 

Lymnea Cubexsis, Pfr. I. St. Croix. Dr. E. E. Griflath. 

(Coll, Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 
 " " " Terroya Eiver, Yera Cruz, Mexico, 

Strebel. (Coll. Wheatley and 
 Tryon.) 
 " MACEOSTOMA, Say, Mexico. Berendt. (Coll. Wheat- 
 ley.) 
 Amnicola Cincinnatiensis, Anth. Orizaba, Mexico. Bot- 

teri. (Coll. Wheatley.) 

12 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OP EISSOA. 

BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 

EissOA EXILIS, Tryon. — t. 2, f. 18. 

Description. — Shell subulate, light brown, consisting of six 
 convex volutions, with well-marked suture; aperture oval, 
 proportionally very small ; surface covered with slight re- 
 volving stride? 

Dimensio7is. — Length -135 inch, diameter -07 inch ; length 
 of aperture '04 inch, breadth -03 inch. 

Habitat. — San Diego, Cal., on salt water grass, (Dr. J. G. 
 Cooper.) 

My Cabinet. 

Observations. — I find only a single specimen of this very 
 distinct Rissoid among a lot of JR. Coo2:)erii, nob. There ap- 
 pear to be traces of revolving striee on this specimen, which 
 is, unfortunately, not in good condition, being a dead shell. 

OF CONCnOLOGYj 13 

ADDITION TO "CATALOGUE OF HELICES INHABIT- 
 ING THE WEST COAST OP NORTH AMERICA, 
 NORTH OP CAPE ST. LUCAS."^ 

BY WESLEY NEWCOMB, M. D. 

Neiu Localities. 
 4. Helix Townsendiaxa, Lea. 

Between Idaho City and Cour d'Alene Mining District, 
 Idalio Territory, (H. Hemphill.) 

This is a small variety of the species. 
 6. Helix Californiensis, Lea. 

Monterey, Cal. 
 16. Helix tudiculata, Binney. 

Mountains of San Bernardino. 

37. Helix strigosa, Gould. 

Between Idaho City and Cour d'Alene Mining District, 
 Idaho Territory, (H. Hemphill.) 

42. Helix fulva, Drap. 

San Gorgonio Pass, Los Angelos County. 

Additional Species. 

44. Helix arborea, Say. 

Los Angelos, Cal. British Columbia. 

45. Helix minuscula, Binney. 
 San Bernardino Valley. 

46. Helix Idahoensis, Newcomb. 

Between Idaho City and Cour d'Alene Mining District, 
 Idaho Territory, (H. Hemphill.) 

* This Journal, Vol. I,, p. 342. 

14 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

MONOGRAPH OF THE FAMILY STREPOMATID^. 

L Continued from p. 341, Vol. /.] 

;,.:,, BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 

GONIOBASIS, Lea. 
 a. Shell spirally ridged. 

1. G. procissa, Anth. Fig. 1. Ovate, thick, inflated; 
 spire short, conical; whorls 5, convex, the last large, with five 
 sharp, raised revolving caringe, the two central ones more 
 prominent ; aperture small, round-ovate. Greenish or brown- 
 ish. N. Car. 

b. Shell tuherculate or nodulous. 

2. G. varians, Lea. Figs, 2, 3, Cylindrically conical; 
 smooth, plicate or striate, thick ; spire raised, suture impressed ; 
 whorls 7, shouldered, and frequently tuberculate; aperture 
 small, elliptical, narrow at base. Yellowish or brownish, 
 sometimes banded. Coosa River., Ala. 

3. G. Hydeii. Gonr. Fig, -i. Elevated, conical ; spire ele- 
 vated, suture slightly impressed; whorls about 7, flattened, 
 the last rounded below the periphery, with three or four acute 
 spiral lines of tubercles on the upper portion of the whorl, 
 and one or two rows on the spire ; aperture elliptical. Brown- 

'ish, sometimes with green bands. Black Warrior River, Ala. 

4. G. decorata, Anth. Figs. 5, 6, 7. Sub-fusiform ; spire 
 elevated, suture impressed ; whorls 6, last very large, covered 
 with transverse rows of tubercles, the lines towards the base 
 less tuberculate; aperture large, rhomboidal. Yellowish or 
 dark brown, frequently with several dark bands. Geo. and 
 E. Tenn. 

Fig. 5 represents O. decorata., Anth., the young shell; Fig. 6 is O. gra- 
 nata. Lea, a half-grown shell, and Fig. 7 is O. Tryoniana., Lea, the adult. 

5. G. caslatura, Conr. Fig. 8. Sub-fusiform ; spire ob- 
 tusely elevated, suture impressed ; whorls 6, slightly convex, 
 the last large, with obscure longitudinal ribs, and numerous 
 unequal, prominent revolving lines, sub-nodulous where they 
 cross the ribs ; aperture rather large, oval. Eeddish brown, 
 sometimes banded. Geo. 

Narrowpr, with closer striee, and not so luberculate as decorata. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 15 

6. G. OCCata, Hinds. Fig. 9. Ovate, rather thin ; spire 
 obtuse; whorls few, rounded, grooved, with sharp ridges, 
 elevated into frequent irregular, sharp, acute tubercles. Brown- 
 ish, the ridges marked internally with narrow brown bands. 
 California. 

7. G. Albanyensis, Lea. Fig. 10. Conical, rather thin ; 
 spire sub-elevated, suture irregularly impressed; whorls 6, 
 planulate, those of the spire plicate, with revolving granulate 
 lines throughout ; body whorl convex ; aperture moderate, 
 sub-rhomboidal, a little sinuous below. Yellowish-olive. Al- 
 bany, Baker Co., Geo. 

8. G. Stewardsoniana, Lea. Fig. 11. Sub-fusiform, 
 thick, shining; spire very obtuse, suture impressed; whorls 
 slightly convex, the last large, transversely striate, somewhat 
 granulate ; aperture very large, oval. Dark green or brown. 
 Knoxville, Tain. 

Very closely allied to No. 5 (Fig. 8), but is thicker, smaller, without 
 bands, and generally of a peculiar dark green color. 

9. G. flavescens, Lea. Fig. 12. Sub-cylindrical, thick; 
 spire obtusely conical, elevated, suture irregularly impressed ; 
 whorls about 5, slightly convex, the last very large, folded, 
 closely striate, and slightly granulate ; aperture large, rhom- 
 boidal. Light yellowish, Avhite, or tinged Avith pink or nu- 
 merously pink-banded within. Oconee and Tennessee Rivers., 
 E. Tenn. 

Narrower, more finely striate, and much lighter color than ccdatura (No. 
 5, Fig. 8;. 

10. G. catenaria, Say. Figs. 13, 14, 15. Elongate, conoidal; 
 spire conical, with a carinated angle above the suture, ob- 
 scurely longitudinally ribbed; ribs crossed by several re- 
 volving lines, and terminating in tubercles on the body whorl; 
 aperture small, elliptical. Brownish. S. Car. Geo. 

Fig. 13 is catenaria, from one of Say's type specimens ; Fig. 14 is a half- 
 grown, and Fig. 15 the adult (and typical^ sublirata, Conr. 

11. G. catenoides, Lea. Figs. 16, 17, 18, 19. Elevated 
 conical ; spire elevated ; whorls flattened, suture well im- 
 pressed ; body whorl large, inflated, angulate in middle ; whorls 
 with longitudinal ribs, terminating tuberculately upon the 
 periphery of each whorl, and with close revolving striee ; aper- 
 ture small, ovate. Light brownish, the revolving hair-like 
 striae of darker color. Chattahoochee River, Geo. 

16 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

11a. G. viridostriatus, Lea. Fig. 20. Fusiform, rather 
 thin ; spire obtusely conical, suture irregularly impressed ; 
 whoris 5, somewhat flattened, the last convex, slightly plicate, 
 and covered throughout with raised granulate revolving striae; 
 aperture rather small, sub-rhomboidal, columella inflected and 
 contorted. Yellowish-olive, the strifB dark green, and visible 
 within the aperture. Flint River, Oeo. 

The ornamentation of this species is very peculiar, and reminds one of 
 exotic species. 

12. G. Etowahensis, Lea. Fig. 21. Turrited, thin, pli- 
 cate, tuberculate ; spire elevated, suture irregularly much im- 
 pressed ; W' horls 7, all carinate, with compressed tubercles on 
 the periphery, striate below ; aperture small, rhomboidal. 
 Brownish. Lake Monroe, Fla. Etowah and Tennessee Rivers^ 
 Oeo. 

13. G. Hallenbeckii, Lea. Fig. 22. Turrited, thin, ir- 
 regularly plicate, tuberculate; spire subulate, suture much 
 impressed ; whorls 8, somewhat convex, carinate in the middle, 
 with compressed tubercles where the plications terminate on 
 the carina, below with several revolving striae. Pale horn-color 
 or olivaceous, sometimes banded. Geo. 

Larger, more tuberculate, and with more elevated spire than the next. 

14. G. Boykiniana, Zm. Figs. 23, 21, 25, 26. Elevated, 
 somewhat turrited; spire conical, suture well impressed; 
 whorls 7 — 8, sloping, flattened, strongly angled in the middle, 
 angle visible on the spire, somewhat tuberculate, with longi- 
 tudinal plico8 above, and revolving lines below. Brownish or 
 olivaceous, sometimes banded. Geo. 

A variable species, but always distinguished from the last, among other 
 differences, by its flattened whorls. 

15. G. Bentoniensis, Lea. Fig. 27. Conical, elevated ; 
 spire raised, suture very much impressed ; whorls 7, slightly 
 convex, carinate, folded above, striate below the carina ; aper- 
 ture rather small, ovate, narrow below. Greenish horn-color, 
 not banded. Benton Co., (?) N. Ala. 

Closely allied to, if not identical with No. 14. 

16. G. papulosa, ^?2^/a. Figs. 28— 30. Sub-turrited, thin; 
 spire conical, suture irregularl}^ impressed ; whorls 7, sub- 
 carinate, decussated into tuberculations, coloring the surface 
 above the periphery, with several striae below. Pale brown, 
 not banded. Ftoicah River, Geo. Fla. 

Figs. 28, 29 re-pvesent papulosa, the latter being from the type; Fig. 30 is 
 Downiedixi, Lea. 

17. G. Couperii, ivca. Fig.31. Turrited, thin; spire elevated, 
 suture much impressed; whorls 7, narrow^, sub-carinate, with 
 raised revolving strias all over, plicate above the periphery, 
 and slightly tuberculate at the termination of the plications. 
 Dark brown, with a broad band at base. Etowah River, Geo. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 11 

18. G. inclinans, Lea. Fig. 32. Subulate, thin; spire 
 sub-attenuate, apex acute, suture furrowed ; whorls 8, flat- 
 tened, covered with many oblique folds, not carinate, with re- 
 volving stride ; aperture very small, oval. Brownish, lighter 
 below the suture, obscurely banded. Geo. and N. Ala. 

19. G. Postellii, i^ea. Fig. 33. Attenuately conical, rather 
 thin ; spire elevated, suture irregularly impressed ; whorls 8, 
 flattened, granulate above, striate below the periphery. Yel- 
 lowish-olive, the stria3 frequently forming bands within the 
 aperture. AUamaha River ^ Geo. 

20. G. arachnoidea, Anth. Figs. 34, 35. Attenuately 
 conical, rather thin ; spire narrowly elevated, suture much im- 
 pressed; whorls 12, convex, strongly striated throughout, cari- 
 nated, and above the carina obscurely plicate, the plications more 
 distinct towards the apex; the periphery is sometimes ob- 
 scurely flattened. Light horn-color, not banded. Tenn. 

Fig. 35 is intertexta, Anth. 

21. G. Conradi, jSro^. Fig. 36. Attenuately conical, rather 
 thin ; spire elevated, suture slightly impressed ; whorls 9, 
 nearly flat, with slightly curved ribs, interrupted near the su- 
 ture by a revolving granulated line, ribs on the body whorl 
 becoming obsolete above the periphery. Reddish-brown. 
 Savannah River, Geo. 

22. G. carinifera, Lam. Figs. 37 — 41. Elevated, mode- 
 rately thick ; spire raised, suture well impressed ; whorls 7, 
 convex, flattened generally upon the periphery, those of the 
 spire somewhat carinate, with a line of bead-like tubercles re- 
 volving below the suture. Brownish or olivaceous. Yadkin 
 River, S. Gar. Geo. N. Ala. 

Fig. 37 represents the type ; Fig. 38 is an enlarged outline ; Fig. 39 is 
 hella, Cour. ; Fig. 40 is pcrcarinata, Conr.; Fig. 41 is nebulosa, Conr. 

130. G. vittata, ^ri;!/i. Fig. 42. Sub-turrited, moderately 
 thick ; spire elevated, suture well impressed ; whorls 9, 
 slopingly flattened, biangulate in the middle, obsoletely gran- 
 ulate below the suture. Yellowish-brown, with dark, narrow, 
 revolving bands. Ala. 
 Perhaps a var. of carinifera. 

22a. G. abbreviata, Anth. Figs. 43 — 45. Ovate-cylin- 
 drical, small, thick; spire convex, short, conical; whorls 5 — 6, 
 the last large, cylindrical ; with large tubercles upon the spire 
 and shoulder of the last whorl. Dark horn- color or greenish, 
 with a yellowish central broad revolving band, or two brown 
 bands, or without bands. Ky. Tenn. 

Fig. 43 represents the type; Fig. 44, eleffantula, Anth.; Fig. 45, abbrt- 
 viata, Anth. 

18 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

22b. G. vesicula, Lea. Fig. 4-6. Elliptical, thin ; spire 
 very short, obtuse, suture not verj distinct; whorls 3, some- 
 what convex, obscurely tuberculate above; aperture large, 
 long-ovate. Yellow, not banded, salmon-color within. Ala. 

c. Shell lylic ate. 

23. G. obesa, ^w?;A. Fig. 47. Globosely-ovate, solid; spire 
 short, conical, rather immersed, suture slightly impressed ; 
 whorls 5, slopingly rounded, obsoletely plicate, the last very 
 large, spirally ridged towards the base. Falvous, with ob- 
 scure, narrow, olive-green bands. Ala. 

24. G. blanda, Lea. Fig. 48. Obtusely fusiform, obtusely 
 conical above, rather thin ; spire very obtuse, suture impressed ; 
 whorls 5, flattened above, ob3Curel7 folded, the last large, sub- 
 angular; aperture rather large, elliptical. Dark horn-color, 
 yellowish- white within. Yellow Leaf Greelc, Ala. 

26. G. sequalis, Hald. Fig. 49. Short conical, thick ; 
 spire conical, suture slightly impressed ; whorls 5, sloping, 
 flatly convex, longitudinally folded, the last large, angulate 
 on the periphery ; aperture narrow elliptic, as long as the 
 spire. Reddish-brown. Nolachuchj River, Tenn. 

27. G. semi^adata, Reeve. Fig. 50. Pyramidally coni- 
 cal, thick ; whorls 5 — -6, flatly sloping, and sharply angulate 
 and carinate; first few whorls plicate, the last with two cari- 
 nas; aperture ovate, a little effused at base. Fulvous olive, 
 with a green band. Ala. 

28. G. carinocostata, Lea. Figs. 51 — 54. Elevated coni- 
 cal, rather thin ; spire elevated, suture sulcate ; whorls 7, flat- 
 tened, carinate and plicate, plicoe not reaching to middle of 
 body whorl. Wax-yellow to dark brown, whitish or brownish 
 within, sometimes banded. Tenn. Ala. Geo. 

Fig. 51 represents the type; Figs. 53 unci 54 are scabrcUa, Aiitb., younger 
 shells. 

28a. G. stvenVLSi, Ley. Fig. 55. Sub-fusiform, rather thin; 
 spire raised, suture very much impressed ; whorls 7, convexly 
 flattened ; distantly folded on the spire, and carinate above the 
 suture ; body whorl convex, without folds or carina. Brown- 
 ish-olive or yellowish horn-color, white or brownish within. 
 Benton County, K E. Ala. 

28b. G. perstriata, Lea. Fig. 57. Acutely conical, rather 
 thin ; spire elevated, somewhat attenuate, at the apex carinate 
 and granulate, suture deeply impressed ; whorls 7, convex, 
 striate, the last not angled; aperture small, elliptical. Cinna- 
 mon-brown. Coosa River, Ala. 

OF CONCIIOLOGY. 19 

28c. G. Smithsoniana, Lea. Fig. 58. Fusiform, some- 
 what thick, inucrDiKite; spire obtusely conical, plicate, suture 
 impressed ; whorls 7, planulate, angulate above the suture, the 
 last large and somewhat obscurely angulate ; aperture rather 
 large, sub-rhomboidal, a little effused at base. Dark horn- 
 color, whitish within. N. Geo. E. Tenn. 

28d. G. Emeryensis, Lea. Fig. 59. Sub-fusiform, rather 
 thin ; spire obtusely conoidal, suture irregularly impressed ; 
 whorls 6, planulate, above distantly plicate, body whorl smooth, 
 obsoletely angulate in the middle ; aperture rather large, sub- 
 rhomboidal. Dark olive, without bands, bluish-white within.- 
 Rochj Greek, branch of Emery Bun, E. Tenn. 

29. G. Lecontiana, Lea. Fig. 60. Conical, thick ; spire 
 obtusely elevated, suture slight ; whorls 6, flattened, with 
 somewhat curved folds; aperture large, elliptical. Horn- 
 color, bluish within. Geo. 

31. G. obtusa, Lea. Figs. 61, 62. Sub-fusiform, some- 
 what thick, inflated ; spire very obtuse, suture irregularly im- 
 pressed; whorls 5, slightly convex, cancellate above; aper- 
 ture very large, ovately rhomboidal. Yellowish horn-color, 
 white within. Tenn. Geo. 

Fig. 62 represents G. caclus, Lea. 

32. G. amcena, Lea. Fig. 63. Sub-fusiform, thick ; spire 
 obtusely conical, suture irregularly impressed ; whorls 6, 
 somewhat convex, folded, striate at the apex ; aperture large, 
 ovately rhomboidal. Pale chestnut-color, without bands, 
 whitish within. N. Ala. 

33. G. Tuomeyi, Lea. Fig. 64. Fusiform, rather thick ; 
 spire obtusely conical, the first few whorls closely plicate, su- 
 ture impressed ; Avhorls 6, flattened above, the last ventricose, 
 smooth; aperture large, rhomboidal, columella twisted. Yel- 
 lowish-olive, with or without bands. N. Ala. 

35, G. interveniens, Lea. Fig. 65. Conical, rather thin; 
 spire obtusely conical, suture irregularly and very much im- 
 pressed ; whorls 6, flattened, with distant large curved folds, 
 becoming obsolete towards the middle of the body whorl. 
 Dark horn-color or brown, double-banded or without bands ; 
 white, brown, or banded within. N. Ala. 

36. G. olivella, Lea. Fig. (jQ. Fusiform, rather thick; 
 spire obtusely conical, suture il'regularly very much impressed ; 
 whorls 5, somewhat convex, shining, folded ; folds decussated 
 just below the suture. Olivaceous, without bands, white 
 within, Tenn. 

20 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

37. G. interrupta, ^aM. Figs. 67— 72. Fusiform, ratlier 
 thick, inflated; spire obtusely conical, suture impressed ; whorls 
 5, slightly convex, either folded, striate or granulate. Yel- 
 lowish-olive, with or without bauds. Tenn. Cherokee Co., 

N. C. 

Fig. 71 is Chrystyi^ Lea; Fig. 72 is O. insiaMlis, Lea. 

38. G. crispa, Lea. Fig. 73. Fusiform, rather thick; 
 spire obtuse, suture much impressed; whorls 6, convex ; folded 
 and closely transversely striate or crispate. Yellowish, not 
 banded, whitish within. Florence, Ala. 

39. G. formosa, Conr. Figs. 74, 75. Sub-fusiform, rather 
 thin; spire elevated, suture well impressed; whorls 6, convex, 
 with distant robust rounded ribs ; two approximate lines re- 
 volve below the suture, and the base is profoundly striated. 
 Olivaceous, with distant brown bands. Tenn. N. Ala. 

Fig. 75 is G. ornntella, Lea. 

40. G. mediocris, Lea. Fig. 76. Sub-fusiform, rather 
 thin ; spire conical, suture irregularly impressed ; whorls 6, 
 flattened, distantly folded. Ash-color, shining, banded. Tenn. 

Narrower, less folded, and differently colored from O. formosa. 

42. G. Duttonii, Tjea. Fig. 77. Conoidal, thick ; spire 
 conoidal, suture irregularly impressed ; whorls 7, rapidly in- 
 creasing, somewhat convex, with small close folds. Pale red- 
 dish-yellow, not banded, or with two distant broad bands, 
 white and banded within. Maury Co., Tenn. Grayson Co., 
 Ky. 

43. G. laqueata, Say. Figs. 78 — 81. Conoidal, mode- 
 rately thick; spire elevated, apex acute, suture well impressed; 
 whorls 7, convex, with regular, somewhat curved ribs, be- 
 coming obsolete towards the middle of the body whorl ; aper- 
 ture large, columella a little curved at the base, and produced. 
 Yellowish, with generally two brown bands. Tenn. 

Fig. 81 is O. monozonalis, Lea, a young individual. 

44. G, Pybasii, Lea. Fig. 82, Elevated, thin ; spire at- 
 tenuate, sharp-pointed, suture impressed ; whorls 7, flatly con- 
 vex, distantly folded, folds scarcely apparent on body whorl. 
 Yellowish, with generally 4 bands, the two middle ones ap- 
 proximate. Tuscwnibia, Ala. 

45. G. induta, Lea. Fig. 83. Elevated conical, rather 
 thin, polished; spire conoidal, sharp-pointed, suture much im- 
 pressed ; whorls 8, flatly convex, with erect folds, becoming 
 obsolete towards the middle of the body whorl ; aperture 
 small, a little narrowed at base. Dark brown, 4-banded. 
 Vienna, Dooly Co., Geo. 

OF OONCHOLOGY. 21 

46. G. versipellis, Anth. Fig. 84. Ovately conical, some- 
 what thin; spire short, conical, acute, suture slightly impressed; 
 whorls 7, flattened, with straight small folds, sometimes striate, 
 body whorl bulbous, inflated ; aperture elliptical. Horn- 
 color, with generally two approximate central narrow bands. 
 Tenn. 

More iaflated, with more numerous whorls (for its size) than G. la- 
 queata. 

47. G. gracilis, i^m. Fig. 84a. Club-shaped, rather thin; 
 spire elevated, acute, suture well impressed; whorls 8, convex, 
 the first few with slight fine plications. Horn-color, not banded. 
 Tenn. 

48. G. paucicosta, Antli. Fig. 85. Elevated conical, 
 thick, shining; spire elevated, apex acute; suture well im- 
 pressed; whorls 8 — 9, convex, with distant, prominent, much 
 curved, rugose plications. Dark greenish, livid within. Tenn_ 

49. G. tenebrosa, Lea. Fig, 86. Conical, thick; spire 
 rather elevated, suture impressed ; whorls 7, flattened, the first 
 few folded. Nearly black, bluish within. Tenn. 

50. G. coracina, Ayith. Figs. 87, 88. Conically turrited, 
 narrow, thin, shining ; whorls 6—7, flat, plicate, plicge extend- 
 ing to middle of body whorl. Dark purplish-black, purple 
 within. Cany Fork, Term. 

Fig. 88 is O. Sellersiana, Lea. 

51. G. intersita, i/ft^d Fig. 89. Conic, moderately thick ; 
 whorls convex, plicate, with a decussating line below the su- 
 ture. Olivaceous. Swan Greek, Ind. 

52. G. columella, Lea. Fig. 90. Conical, rather thin; 
 spire somewhat elevated ; whorls 6, slightly convex, narrow, 
 obscurely plicate, striate towards the apex, the last one smooth ; 
 aperture small, elliptical, angular at base. Horn-color, whitish 
 within. Tenn. 

53. G. blanda, iea. Fig. 91. Conical, rather thin, shining ; 
 spire rather elevated, striate towards the apex ; whorls 7, flat- 
 tened, folded ; aperture small, elliptical, angular at base. 
 Horn-color, whitish within. Tenn. 

More folded than 0. columella, with a different aperture. 

54. G. nitens, Lea. Fig. 92. Conical, thick, shining; 
 spire obtuse, suture moderately impressed; whorls 7, flatly 
 convex, folded, folds extending to middle of body whorl ; 
 aperture small, slightly augulat at base. Dark brown, reddish 
 within. Te7i7i. 

55. G. mutata, Brot. Fig. 93. Elevated conical, thick ; 
 spire elevated; apex acute, suture moderately impressed; 
 whorls 7, flatly convex, the first few plicate, transversely 
 ridged, becoming obsolete towards the aperture. Dull olive. 
 Tenn. 

ii:i AMERICAN JOURNAL 

56. G. suturalis, Hald. Fig, 9-i. Conical, moderately 
 thick ; spire elevated, suture well impressed ; whorls 6, flat, 
 angled just above the suture, and on the periphery, the supe- 
 rior portion plicate, carina bordered by a raised line, which is 
 double on the body. Dark olivaceous, banded, white within. 
 Ohio ? 

This species appears to be identical wilh G. mutabilis, but cannot be the 
 same if the locality is correct. 

57. G. mutabilis, Lea. Fig. 95. Conical, somewhat thick ; 
 spire conical, suture well impressed ; whorls 6, flattened, cari- 
 nate and striate, the first ones plicate ; aperture rhomboidal, 
 narrow below, columella twisted. Yellowish-green, with or 
 without four bands. Butts Co., Geo. 

58. G. Viennaensis, Lea. Fig. 95a. Sub-fusiform, rather 
 thin; spire regularly conical, suture irregularly impressed; 
 whorls 7, flattened, distantly folded, the last whorl large ; aper- 
 ture rather large, rhomboidal. Olivaceous, bluish white with- 
 in. Vienna, Dooly Co., Geo. 

59. G. Curreyana, Lea. Figs. 96, 97. Conical, rather 
 thick ; spire somewhat elevated, suture irregularly impressed ; 
 whorls 7, rather convex, all of them with few, sharp, curved 
 folds ; aperture small, angular below. Horn-color, not banded. 
 Bar r 671 River, Ky. 

60. G. COStifera, Hald. Fig. 98. Lengthened, conical ; 
 spire elevated, suture well impressed; whorls 8, slightly con- 
 vex, covered with moderate sized, low, rounded ribs, decussated 
 below the suture by spiral lines. Light horn-color. Henne- 
 pin, LI Is. 

61. G. Deshayesiana, Lea. Figs. 99—101. Elongate 
 conical, thin; spire elevated, suture impressed; whorls 8, 
 somewhat convex, rather closely folded, and decussated by 
 spiral lines below the suture. Dark horn-color. 7hin. 

62. G. Abbevillensis, Lea. Fig. 102, Conical, rather 
 thick, shining; spire conical, suture linear; whorls 7, flatly 
 convex, the last large, those of the spire prominently folded, 
 the first few carinate and striate. Chestnut-color, somewhat 
 ochraceous within. Ahheville District, S. 0. 

63. G. Doolyensis, i^eo. Fig. 103. Cylindrically conical, 
 thin ; spire elevated, much drawn out, suture irregularly im- 
 pressed; whorls 9, a little convex, closely folded; aperture 
 very small, columella much twisted. Dark horn-color, or ash- 
 grey. Tenn. Vienna, Dooly Co., Geo. 

64. G. inconstans, Lea. Fig. 104. Sub-fusiform, rather 
 thin ; spire obtusely conical, suture impressed ; whorls 6, some- 
 what convex, folded above. Horn-color, olivaceous or dark 
 brown, sometimes banded, white or pale purple within. 
 Etowah River, Geo. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 23 

65. G. continens, Lea. Figs. 105, 106. Conical, rather 
 thin; spire irregularly conical, suture impressed; whorls 7, 
 somewhat convex, those of the spire with curved folds. Yel- 
 lowish horn-coloi", not banded, bluish-white within. N. Ala. 

Fig. 106 is O. proletaria, Lea. 

66. G. viridicata, Lea. Fig. 107. Elongate conical, thin; 
 spire conical, exserted, suture impressed-; whorls 7, somewhat 
 convex, those of the spire rather closely folded. Greenish, not 
 banded, bluish-white within. Orayson Co., Ky. 

67. G. purpurella, i^ea. Fig. 108. Conical, thin, shining; 
 spire conical, suture impressed; whorls 7, slightly convex, 
 folded, and decussated by a single line below the suture. Pur- 
 plish, sometimes banded, dark within. Cany Fork River, 
 Tenn. 

68. G. semicostata, Conr. Fig. 109. Conical, somewhat 
 thick ; spire elevated, suture impressed ; whorls 6, convex, 
 finely spirally striate, those of the spire folded ; body whorl 
 without ribs, obscurely striate above, sub-biangulated in the 
 middle. Dark horn-color, banded, bluish-white within. N. 
 Ala. 

69. G. dislocata, Rav. Fig. 110. Conical, rather thick; 
 spire elevated, suture well impressed; whorls convex, those of 
 the spire rudely ribbed. Light yellow. Dan River, N. C. 

69a. G. Lindsleyi, Lea. Fig. 111. Cylindrically conical, 
 rather thin ; spire conoidal, suture very much impressed ; 
 whorls flatly convex, with erect folds. Yellowish horn-color, 
 not banded, bluish- white within. Tenn. 

Narrower, and more ribbed than Q. dislocata (No. 69). 

70. G. paupercula, Lea. Fig. 112. Sub-cylindrical, ra- 
 ther thin; spire rather short, suture impressed; whorls some- 
 what convex, those of the spire folded, striate at the apex. 
 Chestnut-color or dark-olive, not banded, whitish within. N. 
 Ala. 

71. G. COrneola, Anth. Fig. 113. Conical, very thin; 
 spire short, suture not much impressed; whorls 6, somewhat 
 flat, folded, with revolving, raised striae. Light horn-color, 
 with sometimes four or five narrow bands. Coosa River, Ala. 

Undoubtedly a quite young shell. 

72. G. nassula, Conr. Figs. 114—116. Conical, some- 
 what thin ; spire elevated, suture irregularly impressed ; whorls 
 8, rather flattened, covered with close, raised striae, crossing 
 distant distinct ribs. Yellowish-brown. Tuscumbia, Ala.; 
 Cany Fork, Tenn. 

Fig. 116 represents G. Edgardiana, Lea. 

24 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

74. G. Iilgosa, Lea. Fig. 117. Conical, rather thin, trans- 
 lucent; spire elevated conical, suture very much impressed; 
 whorls 7, very convex, with close, erect ribs, crossed by slight 
 stride, ribs terminating at a raised line on the periphery; aper- 
 ture angular below. Horn-color, whitish within. Tenn. 

75. G. COStulata, Lea. Fig. 118. Conical, rather thin; 
 spire lengthened, carinate above, suture impressed ; whorls 9, 
 rather convex, wity much curved, rounded folds ; aperture 
 small, sub-rhomboidal, angular below. Yellowish, bluish with- 
 in. Tenn.; Barren River .^ Ky. 

76. G. cinerella, Lea. Fig. 119. Sub-fusiform, thin; 
 spire obtusely conical, suture irregularly impressed ; whorls 
 6, slightly convex, with close folds, decussated by two lines 
 below the suture. Ash-color, not banded, whitish within. 
 Tenn. 

78. G. caliginosa, Lea. Fig. 120. Conical, somewhat 
 thick; spire elevated, suture irregularly impressed; whorls 8, 
 rather convex, cancellate throughout by distant nearly equal 
 longitudinal and transverse plications. Dark brown, purple 
 within. Tenn. 

79. G. nodulosa, Lea. Fig. 121. Conical, thick; spire 
 elevated, suture irregularly impressed ; whorls 7, rather flat- 
 tened, closely cancellate, the last large ; aperture rather large, 
 sub-angular below. Dark brown, bluish within. Te7m. 

81. G. difficilis, Lea. Fig. 122. Lengthened, conical, 
 rather thin; spire attenuate, suture moderate; whorls 8, slightly 
 convex, the upper ones obsoletely plicate. Dark olive or 
 brownish, not banded, white within. Tenn. 

82. G. sparus, Lea. Figs. 123, 124. Lengthened conical, 
 somewhat thick; spire attenuate, suture irregularly impressed; 
 whorls 8, convex, the upper ones with small carved folds, de- 
 cussated by a revolving line below the suture. Pale yellow, 
 not banded. Duck Creek, Tenn. 

Fig. 124 is G. cena, Lea. 

83. G. Thorntonii, iea. Fig. 125. Conoidal, rather thin ; 
 spire conical, suture much impressed; whorls slopingly con- 
 vex, with distant prominent bent folds, ending in nodes on the 
 periphery. Horn-color, not banded. Tuscumhia and Florence, 
 Ala. 

84. G. cancellata, Say. Rather slender, attenuated; 
 whorls convex, with about 26 longitudinal, crossed by 18 re- 
 volving lines, those towards the base crowded. Florida. 

I have not seen this species, and it has never been figured. 

OF CONCnOLOGY. 25 

85. G. circincta, Lea. Fig. 126. Turrited, rather thin; 

spire drawn out, suture slight ; whorls 9, slightly convex, 
 centrally carinate, striate, the first few plicate. Pale yellow, 
 banded. Tenn. 

86. G. athleta, Anth. Figs. 127—129. Conical, nearly 
 smooth, rather thick; spire much elevated, suture moderate; 
 whorls 10, nearly flat, with faint ribs, more prominent on the 
 upper ones. Dark horn-color or greenish, white within. Tenn. 

Fig. 128 is G. fjlauca, Auth., and Fig. 129 is G. Lyonii, Lea. 

87. G. curvicostata, Anth. Figs. 130, 131. Turrited, 
 thick; spire much elevated, suture slightly impressed; whorls 
 8, slightly convex, with strong, curved costce. Burnt-olive, 
 purplish within. Florida. 

Fig. 131 is G. densecostata, Reeve. 

88. G. Striatula, Lea. Fig. 132. Conical, rather thin; 
 spire somewhat elevated, suture impressed ; whorls 8, convex, 
 closely striate, carinate above and plicate. Dark brown, red- 
 dish within. Ten7i. 

89. G. tripartita, Beeve. Fig. 133. Acuminately conical, 
 somewhat thick ; spire elevated, suture moderate ; whorls 9, 
 moderately rounded, distantly spirally ridged ; the first few 
 whorls strongly carinated, then plicate, and afterwards smooth. 
 Olive. ? 

90. G. decora, Lea. Fig. 134. Acutely turrited, rather 
 thin; spire acute, elevated, suture impressed; whorls 9, rather 
 flattened, with close ribs and striaj on all but the two lower 
 whorls. Horn-color, whitish within. Green Biver,Ky.; Tenn. 

91. G. crebricostata, Lea. Fig. 135. Elevated conical, 
 rather thick ; spire much elevated, suture linear ; whorls 7, 
 flattened, covered with close, slightly curved folds ; aperture 
 small, elliptical, angular below. Horn-color, bluish within. 
 Robinson Co., Tenn. 

92. G. comma, Conr. Fig. 136. Subulate, much elonga- 
 ted, slender ; whorls 8 or 9, flattened, suture much impressed, 
 with longitudinal, distant, slightly arcuated ribs, disappearing 
 on the lower whorls; aperture small, rhomboidal, angular 
 below. Olive, with a dark band above the middle. Blach 
 Warrior Biver., Ala. 

93. G. acuta, Xm. Fig. 137. Acutely turrited, thin; 
 spire elevated, acute, suture ^moderate ; whorls 8, flattened, 
 carinate immediately above the suture, the first few plicate, 
 striate; aperture small, acutely angular at base. Horn-color. 
 Tennessee Biver. 

26 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

94. G. subcylindracea, Lea. Fig. 138. Sub-cylindri- 
 cal, elongated, somewhat thick ; spire obtusely elevated, su- 
 ture impressed; whorls 8, convex, the first few slightly plicate, 
 the others smooth ; aperture small, ovate. Horn-color, whitish 
 within. Tenn. 

95. G. baculum, J.?^^/i. Fig. 139. Sub-cylindrical, thick; 
 spire elevated, suture well impressed ; whorls about 10, flat- 
 tened, all but the two last with straight folds ; aperture small, 
 ovate, angular at base. Keddish-brown, with a light line be- 
 low the suture, light red within. Term. 

96. G. concinna, Lea. Fig. 140. Sub-cylindrical, thin"; 
 spire drawn out, suture impressed; whorls 9, flattened, the 
 upper ones closely folded and carinate; aperture small, angu- 
 lar at base. Brown, w^hitish within. Tenn. 

I doubt whether this is really distinct from No. 95. 

97. G. eliminata, Anth. Fig. 141. Conical, narrow, thin; 
 spire slender, elevated, suture impressed ; whorls 8. somewhat 
 flattened, carinate above the suture, with revolving lines on and 
 above the carina, the upper whorls obscurely folded; aperture 
 small, angular at base. Brown. Owenshoro, Ky. 

98. G. teres, i^e«. Figs. 142, 143. Acutely turrited, thin ; 
 spire drawn out, suture impressed; whorls 9, convex, slowly 
 increasing, the upper ones folded ; aperture small, elliptical. 
 Horn-color, white within. Term. 

Fig. 143 represents O. terebralis. Lea, a shell not quite adult. 

99. G. gracillima, Anth. Fig. 144. Acutely turrited, 
 narrow, thin ; spire very slender, elevated ; whorls 8, convex, 
 the upper ones folded and striate, the lower ones smooth, the 
 strii© being replaced by indistinct, slender, brown lines ; the 
 lower part of each whorl carinate ; aperture small. Brown, 
 banded within. S. Car. 

100. G. Clarkii, Xea. Fig. 145. Club-shaped, thin; spire ele- 
 vated, much drawn out, suture somewhat impressed ; whorls 10, 
 flattened, ths last swollen ; aperture small, elliptical, produced 
 and angled at the base. Dark brown, same color within. Duck 
 Creek, Tenn.; Tjee Co., Geo. 

101. G. De Campii, Lea. Fig. 146. Elongated, very much 
 attenuated, thin ; spire subulate, suture linear ; whorls 10, flatly 
 convex, upper ones closely plicate, a little angled above the 
 suture. Corneous, whitish within. Huntsville, Ala. 

103. G. plicifera, Lea. Figs. 147 — 149. Turrited, some- 
 what thick ; spire elevated, suture well impressed ; whorls 9 
 convex, smooth or closely striate, with prominent curved ribs 
 Dark horn-color. Oregon. 

OF CONCnOLOQY. 2T 

104. G. silicula, Gonld. Figs. 150, 151. Slender, nearly 
 cylindrical ; spire elevated, suture deeply impressed ; whorls 
 6 — 8, well rounded, with numerous obsolete fine revolving 
 strise, the upper ones longitudinally plicate. Dark chestnut- 
 color, sometimes with two bands. Oregon. 

Fig. 151 represents O. Shastaensis, Lea. 

lO-la. G. rudens, Reeve. Fig. 152. Slender cylindrical, 
 somewhat thick; whorls well rounded, spirally closely striated, 
 the first few strongly plicate. Dull olive. Oregon, Cal. 

105. G. nigrina, Lea. Fig. 153. Small, conical, rather 
 thin ; spire elevated, suture well impressed ; whorls 6 — 7, con- 
 vex, the first few faintly plicate, the last whorl striate below. 
 Nearly black, dark purple within. Oregon, Cal. 

106. G. rubiginosa, Lea. Fig. 154. Elevated, sub-cylin- 
 drical, rather thin ; spire sub-attenuate, suture very much im- 
 pressed ; whorls 7, convex, carinate, the first ones obscurely 
 plicate; body whorl angled and flattened on the periphery, 
 with a raised line above and below. Reddish, obscurely 
 banded, light reddish within. Oregon. 

107. G. Bairdiana, Lea. Fig. 155. Somewhat drawn out, 
 rather thick ; spire acute, suture impressed ; whorls 8, slightly 
 convex, the first few closely and distinctly plicate; aperture 
 small, ovate. Dark brown, whitish within, and single banded. 
 Oregon. 

d. Shell angulate. 

108. G. trochiformis, Conr. Fig. 156. Short conical, 
 turrited, babylonic. ventricose; spire short, suture well im- 
 pressed; whorls 6, angulated, flat-topped, each with two promi- 
 nent spiral lines ; periphery of body whorl carinated ; base 
 flattened. N. Ala. 

109. G. cristata, Anth. Figs. 157, 158. Rhomboidal, 
 strongly carinate, thin; spire short conical, suture slightly im- 
 pressed ; whorls 5, flat, shelving, very strongly angulate and 
 carinate in the middle. Horn-color, sometimes banded. Ala. 

110. G. cruda, Lea. Fig. 159. Sub-fusiform, rather thin, 
 shining; spire obtuse, suture slightly impressed ; whorls flat- 
 tened above, the last rather large and angulate in the middle ; 
 aperture large, rhomboidal. Dark brown, obscurely banded, 
 brown within. Tennessee River. 

111. G. Whitei, Lea. Fig: 160. Fusiform, thick, very 
 much inflated; spire obtusel}'' conical, suture slightly im- 
 pressed ; whorls 5, flattened above, the last ventricose ; aper- 
 ture large, widely rhomboidal. Bright yellowish-brown, gen- 
 erally 3-banded. Qeo. 

28 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Ilia. G. expansa, Lea. Somewhat fusiform, rather 
 thick ; spire obtusely conical, suture somewhat impressed ; 
 whorls 5, slightly convex; aperture large, expanded. Yellow- 
 ish, 4-banded, whitish within. Ala. 

112. G. casta, Anth. Fig. 161. Obtusely conical, thick; 
 spire obtusely elevated, suture moderately impressed ; whorls 
 6 — -7, nearly flat; body whorl sub-angulated, with five coarse 
 prominent strite below the angle. Light horn-color, Ala. 

112a. G. subrhombica, Lea. Fig. 162. Obtusely coni- 
 cal, rather thin, smooth; spire obtuse, suture impressed; whorls 
 5, planulate, above obtusely carinp,te, the last obsoletely angu- 
 late in the middle ; aperture large, rhoraboidal. Dark olive, 
 not banded, white within. Hog Creek, N. Geo. 

113. G. rhombica, Anth. Fig. 163. Conic, rather thin ; 
 spire conical, not much elevated, suture moderate ; whorls 6, 
 nearly flat, very distinctly regularly striate; body whorl large, 
 somewhat convex. Brownish, white within. Ala. 

114. G. angulata, Anth. Figs. 164, 165. Acutely conic, 
 rather thick ; spire conical, moderate, apex acute, suture li- 
 near; whorls 8, nearly flat, the upper ones somewhat carinate, 
 the body whorl distinctly angulate ; aperture narrow, acute 
 below. Brown, whitish within. Tenn. 

Fig. 165 represents G. intercedens, Lea, the adult shell. 

115. G. Bridgesiana,iea. Fig. 166. Fusiform, somewhat in- 
 flated, rather thin; spire obtusely conical, apex carinate, suture 
 linear; whorls 7, flattened; aperture large, sub-rhomboidal. 
 Honey-yellow, not banded, whitish within. Cahawha River, 
 Ala. 

I doubt whether this is more than a variety of No. 114. 

116. G. cubicoides, Anth. Fig. 167. Conical, thick; 
 spire moderately elevated, suture linear; whorls 6 — 7, flat, 
 rapidly enlarging, body whorl large, acutely angulate; aper- 
 ture broadly ovate. Brownish, white within. Wahash River, 
 Ind. 

117. G. Spillmanii, Lea. Fig. 168. Fusiform, thin, 
 shining; spire obtusely conical, suture linear; whorls about 
 6, flattened, somewhat impressed below the suture; aperture 
 large, rhomboidal. Greenish horn-color, not banded. Tennes- 
 see River. 

120. G. pallidula, Anth. Fig. 169. Conic, rather thick; 
 spire obtusely conic, suture slightly impressed; whorls 6, flat- 
 tened, the last large and angulate in the middle ; aperture 
 large, rhomboidal. Pale horn-color, with faint brown narrow 
 bands, two on the body and one on the whorl next above it. 
 Tenn. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 29 

121. G. vicina, Anth. Fig. 170. Conical, thick, rather 
 smooth ; spire short, suturo linear ; whorls 6, upper ones sub- 
 convex ; body whorl a little shouldered beneath the suture, 
 and angulated in the middle; aperture rather large, rhom- 
 boidal. Yellowish-brown, with a narrow brown band, in- 
 creased to two on the body whorl. Ala. 

122. G. Spartenburgensis, Lea. Fig. 171. Fusiform, 
 rather thin ; spire acutely conical, carinate at apex, suture im- 
 pressed; whorls 8, flattened. Bright greenish horn-color, 
 banded or without bands. Spartenhurg List., S. C; Marietta, 
 0.; Wabash River, Ind. 

123. G. modesta, Lea. Fig. 172. Conical, fusiform, ra- 
 ther thin ; spire rather elevated, suture linear ; whorls 8, flat- 
 tened, the last angular in the middle. Dark horn-color. Chat- 
 tahoochie River, Columhis, Geo. 

e. Whorls very strongly angulated. 

125. G. Gerhardtii, Lea. Figs. 173, 171. Conical, thin, 
 shining ; spire regularly conical, suture impressed ; whorls 6, 
 flattened above, the last one large, carinate and angulate in 
 the middle ; aperture large, sub-rhomboidal. Yellowish-green 
 to dark brown, banded, whitish within. Geo.; Coosa River, 
 Ala. 
 Fig. 174 is G. infuscata. Lea. 

125a. G. fraterna, Lea. Fig. 175. Fusiform, thin; spire 
 obtusely conical, suture well impressed ; whorls 6, planulate, 
 acutely carinate above the suture, the body whorl carinate in 
 the middle ; aperture small, ovately rhomboidal, columella 
 twisted below, a little efi'used at base. Yellowish, with or 
 without four brown bands. Cahaicha River, A^a. 

127. G. acutocarinata, iea. Figs. 176 — 178. Fusiform, 
 elevated, somewhat thick ; spire elevated, suture much im- 
 pressed ; whorls 6, flattened, shelving, carinate above the su- 
 ture, the last carinate in the middle; aperture small, rounded 
 below, columella curved to the right at base. Dark brown, 
 purplish within. E. Tenn. 

Fig. 177 represents O. pagodiformis, Anth., and Fig. 178, G. torulosa, 
 Antli. 

f. Body lohorl hi-multiangulated.. 

128. G. tabulata, Anth. Ovate conic, smooth, thin; spire 
 concavely conical, suture distinctly impressed ; whorls 5, upper 
 ones convex, the penultimate flat, and the last sub-cylindrical, 
 angulated into several planes ; aperture large, ovate. Dark 
 brown, reddish-purple within. Tenn. 

30 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

129. G. Catabsea, Hald. Am. Jour. Conch., Vol. I., t 1, 
 f. 5 — 7. Short conic, inflated ; spire conical, suture well im- 
 pressed ; whorls 6, flattened, carinate, the last inflated, bicari- 
 nate in the middle ; aperture ovate. Bright green, polished, 
 bluish within, sometimes bivittate in the middle. Cataivha 
 River, N. C. 

131. G. subangulata, Anth. Fig. 182. Elevated fusi- 
 form, carinate; spire sub-elevated; suture slightly impressed; 
 whorls 6, acutely carinate above the suture, the last flatly 
 convex, biangulate in the middle; aperture small, columella 
 obtusely angular at base. Reddish horn-color, banded, whitish 
 within. Ala. 

132. G. symmetrica, Hall Figs. 183—185. Turrited, 
 moderately thick; spire elevated, suture deeply impressed; 
 whorls 8 — 9, convex, the upper ones carinated above the mid- 
 dle, last one centrally biangulate; aperture small, sub-angulate 
 at base. Light to dark green, frequently 2-banded with 
 brown. W. Va., E. Tenn.. S. Gar., N. Geo. and Ala. 

Fig. 184 is assimilis, Antli. ; Fig. 185, Ucheensis, Lea. 
 133. G. iota, Anth. Conical, somewhat thin; spire 
 acutely elevated, suture well impressed; whorls 10, convex, 
 the upper ones strongly carinate below the middle ; aperture 
 small, pyriform, with a slight basal sinus. Greenish horn- 
 color, whitish within. Ohio ? 

134. G. nigrocincta, Anth. Fig. 186. Conical, smooth, 
 thin, not much elevated, suture impressed ; whorls 6, sub-con- 
 vex, slightly angulated above the suture, the last obsoletely 
 biangulate in the middle ; aperture small, angulate below. 
 Brown, with four dark brown bands. Tenn. 

135. G. teCta, Anth. Figs. 187, 188. Narrowly elevated, 
 thin ; spire elevated, suture impressed ; whorls 7 — 8, sloping- 
 ly flattened, carinate just above the suture, the last whorl bi- 
 angulate in the middle; aperture small, columella curved, a 
 little effused at base. Brovvn, reddish within, slightly banded. 
 Ohio, Ala. 

Fig. 188 is O. marella, Lea. 

136. G. hybrida, Anth. Fig. 189. Conical, elevated, 
 nearly smooth ; whorls 8 — 9, slopingly convex, upper ones 
 much carinated, carina obtuse, lower ones entirely smooth ; 
 aperture small, well rounded below. Ecddish-brown, rose- 
 color or violet within. Tenn. 

137. G. fuscocincta, Anth. Fig. 190. Short, conically 
 ovate, smooth, moderately thick ; spire short, conical, suture 
 moderately impressed ; whorls 5, flattened, sub-carinate, the 
 last large, angulate in the middle; aperture large, broadly 
 ovate. Yellowish brown, with two broad brown bands, visible 
 within. Ala. 

OF CONCIIOLOGY. 31 

138. G. COngesta, Conr. Subulate ; wliorls 9, tlie lower 
 ones obscurely angulated, those of the spire acutely carinate 
 towards the apex; suture well defined; body Avhorl obscurely 
 sub-angulated; aperture longitudinal, elliptical. 

The above is Conrad's description. Tlie shell has never been figured, 
 and I cannot find any specimens named in any of our collections. 

g. SJiort, clavate, smooth species. 

139. G. auriculseformis, Xe-7. Fig. 191. Elliptical, smooth, 
 rather thin; spire short, suture impressed; whorls 6, slightly 
 convex, the last large; aperture elongate, contracted. Yellow, 
 whitish within. Tiiscaloosa, Ala. 

140. G. Nickliniana, Lea. Fig. 192. Obtusely conical, 
 smooth, solid ; spire short, suture impressed ; whorls 6, slight- 
 ly convex ; aperture large, somewhat rounded. Very dark 
 horn-color, purple within. Batli Co., W. Va. 

141. G. aterina, Lea. Fig. 193. Sub-fusiform, smooth, 
 solid; spire obtusely conical, suture impressed; whorls 6, con- 
 vex ; aperture large, sub-ovate, columella inflected, thickened 
 and contorted. Black or greenish-black, purple within. E. 
 Tenn. 

Smaller and narrower than No. 140, and more angulate on the periphery. 

142. G. Binneyana, Lea. Fig. 194. Obtusely fusiform, 
 smoot]], rather thin, very much inflated ; spire depressed, coni- 
 cal, suture impressed ; whorls 5, slopingly flattened above, the 
 last ventricose; aperture very large, sub-ovate; columella 
 thickened, spotted at the base. Dark olive, obscurely banded, 
 dark purple within. Coosa River, Ala. 

More oval, Avith less expanded lip than No. 140. 

143. G. ebenum, Lea. Figs. 195, 196. Obtusely conical, 
 smooth, thick; spire obtuse, suture slight; whorls 4 (trunca- 
 ted), somewhat flatly convex, the last with a rounded angle at 
 periphery; aperture large, ovate, sub-angular at base. Yery 
 dark purple or blackish, purple or bluish within. Robinson 
 Co., Tenn. 

144. G. Vauxiana, Lea. Fig. 197. Fusiform, smooth, 
 rather thin; spire very obtusely conical, suture lightly im- 
 pressed ; whorls 5, flattened above, and somewhat sub-carinate 
 at apex, the last one inflated; aperture very large, widely 
 rhomboidal, angular at base. Green. Coosa River, Ala. 

145. G, larv8Bformis, Lea: Fig. 197a. Obtusely fusi- 
 form, smooth ; whorls 6 — 7, the first few minutely keeled ; 
 aperture ovate. Olive. United States. 

Ths above species, described by Mr. Reeve, I have not seen ; but, judging 
 from the figure, it must be very close to, if not identical with O. Vauxiana, 
 Lea. 

32 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

146. G. auricoma, Lea. Fig. 198. Fusiform, smooth, 
 thin ; spire very obtuse, suture linear ; whorls 5, slightly con- 
 vex ; aperture very large, sub-rhomboidal. Yellowish, often 
 with narrow bands. Tennessee River. 

147. G. glabra, Lea. Conical, smooth, rather thin, 
 shining ; spire somewhat elevated, suture impressed ; whorls 
 6, flatly convex, the first ones sub-carinate ; aperture elonga- 
 ted, columella incurved. Dark chestnut, purple within. Hol- 
 ston River, E. Tenn. 

148. G. graminea, ILald. Fig. 199. Conical, short, in- 
 flated, smooth, polished; spire obtuse, suture moderate; whorls 
 5, somewhat convex; aperture large, rhomboidal, somewhat 
 angular below. Brilliant green, with a light yellow sutural 
 band, bluish within. 

149. G. gibbosa, Lea. Fig. 200. Obtusely conical, gib- 
 bous, rather thin ; spire obtuse, suture irregularly impressed ; 
 whorls 5, somewhat convex, the last large ; aperture large, 
 elliptical, columella thickened, flattened, impressed, and much 
 curved. Greenish horn-color, banded above and below in the 
 interior, columella red. Sciota River, Ohio. 

Differs from all the other species in the very flat, impressed columella. 

151. G. COgnata, Anth. Fig. 201. Ovate, short, smooth, 
 moderately thick ; spire very small, obtuse, suture deeply im- 
 pressed ; whorls 6, convex, the last one very large ; aperture 
 moderate, broad ovate, columella deeply rounded, indented 
 and caUous. Brownish-yellow, with three sub-central brown 
 bands, and one obscure sutural one, bands visible within the 
 aperture. Tenn. 

152. G. Georgiana, Lea. Fig. 202. Fusiform, inflated, 
 smooth, rather thick ; spire obtusely elevated, suture very 
 much impressed ; whorls 5, very convex, the last large ; aper- 
 ture large, sub-rhomboidal, columella bent in, thickened and 
 somewhat twisted. Bright yellowish, with dispersed whitish 
 maculations and three bands. N. Oeo. 

153. G. abrupta, Ljea. Fig. 203. Short conical, smooth, 
 rather thick ; spire short conical, suture linear ; whorls 7, flat- 
 tened, the last large, sub-angulate on the periphery ; aperture 
 large, rhomboidal, columella curved and much thickened be- 
 low. Yellowish, generally with two approximate sub-central 
 bands. Ala. 

154. G. depygis, Say. Fig. 204. Oblong, conic ovate, 
 moderately thick ; spire conic, suture well impressed; whorls 
 5, the last somewhat elliptical ; aperture narrow ovate, acute 
 above. Yellowish, generally with two rufous bands, equidis- 
 tant from the suture, the base, and each other. Ohio River. 

OF CONCHOLOGY, 83 

155. G. livescens, Wke. Figs. 205 — 207. Ovate oblong, 
 smooth, moderately thick ; spire short, conically acute, suture 
 slightly impressed; whorls 5 — 6, rather flat, the last large; 
 aperture large, elliptical. Horn-color, purple within. All the 
 Great Lakes and streams emptying into them. 

Fig. 206 is G. napella, Anth., and Fig. 207 is G. cimpidata, Anth. 

156. G. Milesii, Lea. Fig. 208. Sub-fusiform, smooth, 
 rather thick; spire sub-elevated, suture irregularly impressed; 
 whorls 6, sub-inflated ; aperture large, columella slightly in- 
 curved. Olivaceous, purplish within. Tuscola Co., Mich. 

Closely allied to lli-escent^, but appears to be more convex, and to attain a 
 larger size. I am not satislied that it is a distinct species. 

157. G. simplex, Say, Figs. 209—212. Convex, sub- 
 fusiform, smooth, rather thick, rapidly enlarging; spire atten- 
 uated, sub-carinate, apex acute, suture not deeply impressed ; 
 whorls 8, the last large, convex ; aperture moderate oval. 
 Dark brown, dull red within. Holston and Clinch Rivers, S. 
 W. Frt., and E. Tenn. 

Fig. 209 represents the type ; Fig. 210 is Warderia?ia, Lea, in which the 
 apicial whorls are persistent and perfect ; Fig. 211 is subsolida, Lea, and 
 Fig. 212 is Vanuxemiiy Lea. 

158. G. Potosiensis, Lea. Convexly conical, carinate, 
 rather thin; spire obtusely elevated, suture much impressed; 
 whorls 8, convex. Brown, purplish within. Potosi, Mo. 

Very closely allied to O. simplex. It is one of the very few species 
 found west of the Mississippi River. 

159. G. torta, Lea. Fig. 213. Club-shaped, smooth, ra- 
 ther thick ; spire obtusely elevated, suture impressed ; whorls 
 7, slopingly convex, the last large; aperture very large, ellip- 
 tical, columella twisted. Dark brown, bluish-white within. 
 Bif/ Creek., Lawrence Co,^ Tenn, 

When the spire is perfect, it is attenuately drawn out, the same as in 
 some species of Cylindrella, 

160. G. Saffordi, i^ea. Fig. 214. Obtusely conical, smooth, 
 thick; spire rather short, suture linear; whorls 7 (when not 
 eroded), slightly convex, the last large, gibbously enlarged in 
 the middle; aperture large, oval, elongated, columella twisted. 
 Dark green, purple within. Lebanon., Wilson Co.., Tenn. 

160a. G. virens, Anth. Fig. 215. Ovate conic, smooth, 
 thick; spire obtusely elevated, suture well impressed ; whorls 
 6, convex, the last large; aperture large, elliptical, columella 
 well rounded, with a slight sinus -at base. Light green, paler 
 towards the summit, bluish within. Ala. 

161. G. Newberryi, Lea. Fig. 216. Ovately conical, 
 smooth, rather thin; spire obtusely elevated, suture much im- 
 pressed; whorls 6, inflated; aperture rather small, ovately 
 rounded, outer lip inflated, columella incurved. Dark brown, 
 triple-banded, yellow below the suture, whitish and banded 
 within. Orefj<on, 

St AMERICAN JOURNAL 

1Q2. G. hnlhossi, Grid. Fig. 217. Ovatelj conical, rather 
 thin; spire obtuse, with well impressed suture; whorls 5 — 6, 
 (eroded) inflated, very convex; aperture ovately rounded 
 Brownish, shining, without bands. Colvmhia River, Oreffon. 

Maybe the same as G. Newberryi, tlie only difference being in the bands. 

163. G. Lithasioides, Zea. Fig. 218. Sub-fusiform, smooth; 
 spire couoidal, suture impressed ; whorls 6, flattened, sub-con- 
 stricted; aperture rather large, rhomboidal. Corneous, with- 
 out bands. 01 bio. 

161r. G. ilLfantula, Lea. Fig. 219. Obtusely fusiform, 
 moderately thick; spire short, with well impressed suture; 
 whorls 5, sub-convex, a little flattened above; aperture large, 
 ovate, columella thickened and twisted. Dark horn-color, ob- 
 scurely banded ; white and banded within. Louisville, Ky. 

165. G. Louis villens is, Lea. Fig. 220. Obtusely fusi- 
 form, smooth; spire short, conical, suture irregularly im- 
 pressed ; whorls 5, flatly convex ; aperture rather large, long 
 elliptical. Dark brown, not banded, white within. Louisville, 
 Ky. 
 It is very doubtful whether this is distinct from G. infantula. 

h. Smooth, elevated 

speci 

166. G. pulchella, Anth. Fig. 221. Conically elongated, 
 thin; spire elevated, suture well impressed; whorls 7, convex; 
 aperture rather large, elongately ovate. Brownish horn-color, 
 with two brown bands. Ohio. 

More elevated than M. depygis, and lighter color and more convex than 
 M. (jraciUor. 

167. G. cinerea, Lea. Fig. 222. Conically elongated, 
 thin, smooth, bright; spire elevated, sharp-pointed, suture very 
 much impressed; whorls 8, convex, the last slopingly convex; 
 aperture rather large, sub-rhomboidal, columella bent in, 
 slightly thickened. Ash-gra}^, double-banded, bluish-white 
 within, columella purplish. >S'. Car. 

Doubtfully distinct from pulchella. The description is from a single 
 specimen, and the habitat may be an error. 

168. G. gracilior, Anth. Fig. 223. Conical, elevated, 
 smooth, rather thick ; spire elevated conical, suture slightly 
 impressed; whorls 8, the upper ones flattened, the last sloping- 
 ly convex, peculiarly constricted around the superior half; 
 aperture small, pyriform, columella arcuate, forming a sinus 
 of the margin below. Dark brown, Avith two broad 3^ellowish- 
 green bands on the periphery, the sutural line pale, banded 
 within, columella dark brown. Congress and Springfield Lakes, 
 Stark Co., Ohio. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 35 

169. G. Etowahensis, Lea. Fig. 224. Conoidal, smooth, 
 thin ; spire raiscd-eonical, suture impressed ; whorls 7, slight- 
 ly convex ; aperture rather large, sub-rhomboidal, outer lip 
 acute and sinuous, columella bent in and very much twisted. 
 Dark brown, with two broad dark bands. Etowah River, 
 Geo. 

Wilier than rjrKciUor, with a larger, more angulate aperture, the whorls 
 more convex and not constricted. 

170. G. translucens, AnOi. Fig. 225. Conical ovate, 
 somewhat bulbous, thin, translucent; spire obtuse, suture well 
 impressed; whorls o, convex, the last large; aperture large, 
 ovate, slightly angular at the base. Light horn-color, with 
 two distant broad dark brown bands. Canada. 

171. G. OVOidea, Lea. Fig. 226. Elliptical, smooth, ra- 
 ther thick; spire obtusely conical, suture slightly impressed; 
 whorls 6, slightly convex ; aperture moderate, ovate. Horn- 
 color, with two indistinct dark bands, white within. Alexan- 
 dria, La. 

A single specimen only was received by ^Mr. Lea. 

172. G. grata, Anth. Fig. 227. Elongately fusiform, ra- 
 ther thick, shining; spire raised, sharp-pointed, suture regu- 
 larly impressed ; whorls 9, flattened, the last slightly convex ; 
 aperture rather large, sub rhomboidal, outer lip acute and 
 sinuous, columella bcmt in and twisted. Bright olivaceous, 
 with generally four dark bands, of which the two middle ones 
 on the periphery are approximate, whitish and banded within. 
 Big Prairie Creel', Ala. 

173. G. quadricincta, Lea. Figs. 228, 229. Conical, 
 somewhat thick, polished; whorls 9 — 10, sloping, the last 
 large and convex ; aperture large, sub-rhomboidal. Bright 
 yellow, Avith four green bands, of which the two middle ones 
 are approximate, whitish and banded within. Coosa River, 
 Ala.; Geo. 

Larger, more inflated and lighter color than G. grata. 

174. G. flava, Lea. Fig. 230. Obtusely conical, smooth, 
 rather thin; spire obtuse, suture very much impressed; whorls 
 about 6, flattened, the last slopingly convex ; aperture mode- 
 rate, ovate, outer lip acute, slightly sinuous, columella bent 
 in and thickened. Yellow, o-banded, bands visible within. 
 Benton Co., N. E. Ala. 

175. G. tenebrovittata, Lea: Fig. 231. Elongated coni- 
 cal, smooth, rather thin ; spire raised, suture slightly impressed ; 
 wdiorls 6 — 8, flattened, the last large ; aperture large, sub- 
 rhomboidal. Yellowish, without or with four bands, which 
 are narrow, and the two middle ones approximate or some- 
 times coalesce into one. Consa River, Ala. 

Larger and more elevated than G. grain, and the bands narrower. 

36 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

176. G. tenera, A^dh. Fig. 232. Elongate fusiform, ra- 
 ther thin ; spire elevated, slightly carinate at apex, suture 
 well impressed; whorls 8, slightly convex, the last large; 
 aperture small, sub-rhomboidal, produced at base. Light 
 horn-color, 4-banded, the two middle bands approximate. Ala. 

Distinguished by the narrowly effused aperture. 

1T8. G. EUiottii, Lea. Fig. 233. Obtusely conical, somewhat 
 thick, obscurely striate; spire obtusely elevated, and carinately 
 angled above the much impressed suture ; whorls 6, slopingly 
 convex, the last large; aperture large, ovately rhoml)oidal, 
 columella twisted below. Yellowish-brown, without bands, 
 generally dark brown within, fading to white on the margin. 
 Fannin Co.^ Geo., Uchee and Little Uchee Rivers. 

179. G. pallescens, Lea. Figs. 234, 235. Acutely coni- 
 cal, carinate above the suture, rather thin ; spire elevated, su- 
 ture deeply impressed; whorls 9, sloping, flatly convex; aper- 
 ture small ovate, angular at base. Yellowish, generally with- 
 out bands, sometimes 4-banded. Chester Dist., S. C. ; Little 

Uchee River, Columbus, Geo. 

Fig. 235 is G. inosculata, the immature shell of this species. The figure 
 o^ pallescens, which is a copy of Mr. Lea's, does not well represent the 
 species. 

179a. G. Romae, Lea. Fig. 236. Conoidal, thick, sub- 
 carinate; spire elevated conical, suture slightly impressed; 
 whorls 7, plauulate. the first ones carinate; aperture large, 
 ovate ; lip acute, sub-sinuous, columella thin and contorted. 
 Dark corneous, without bands. Rome, Geo. 

179b. G. circumlineata, Tryon. Figs. 237, 238. Fusi- 
 form, inflated, thick ; spire elevated, apex acute; whorls 6 — 7, 
 convex, the initial ones sometimes slightly folded; body whorl 
 convex, obscurely many angled, the planes produced by irre- 
 gular, raised revolving lines ; aperture small, oblique, ovate. 
 Dark greenish-black or dark horn-color, without bands. Cal. 

180. G. parva, Lea. Fig. 239. Conical, smooth, thin; 
 spire somewhat raised, sharp-pointed, suture well impressed; 
 whorls 7, flatly convex ; aperture rather small, sub-rhomboidal. 
 Horn- color, not banded. Geo. 

May be the same as pallescens. 

182. G. Anthonyi, Lea. Fig. 240. Obtusely conical, 
 smooth, rather thin, shining; spire obtuse, suture moderate; 
 whorls 6, somewhat convex, the last long; aperture large, 
 elongately rhombic, columella very much twisted and narrow- 
 ly produced below. Dark chestnut-brown, not banded. Tenn. 

183. G. Cahawbensis, Xea. Fig. 241. Obtusely conical, 
 smooth, rather thin; spire elevated at the apex, carinate and 
 sharp-pointed, suture linear; whorls 8, flattened, the last ra- 
 ther large; aperture small, ovate. Dark horn-color, obscurely 
 banded, whitish or yellowish within. Cahaicha River, Ala. 

OF CONCnOLOGY. 3Y 

185. G. Gabbiana, Lea. Fig. 2-42. Ovatelj fusiform, 
 smooth, ratlier thin ; spire slightly elevated, sharp-j^ointed, 
 suture moderate; whorls 8, convex and varicose; aperture 
 small, sub-rhomboidal. Horn-color, not banded. Tenn., Ala. 

185a. G. puUa, Lea. Fig. 243. Fusiform, obtuse, smooth; 
 spire obtusely elevated, suture irregularly impressed; whorls 7, 
 slightly convex ; aperture small, ovately rhomboidal. Dark 
 brown, shining, light purplish within. Cumhtrland Gap, E. 
 Tenn. 

186. G. sordida, Lea. Figs. 244—247. Conical, smooth, 
 somewhat thick; spire obtuse, suture well impressed; whorls 
 (eroded), slopingly convex; aperture rather large, somewhat 
 rounded. Dark horn-color, bluish within. Tenn.; Ala.; Sa- 
 line Co.., Ark. 

Fig. 244 represents the type; Fig. 245 is O. plebeia^ Anth.; Fig. 246, O. 
 brunnen, Anth.; and Fig. 247, G.pei'fusca, Lea. 

187. G. clavSBformis, Xea, Fig.249. Club-shaped, smooth, 
 rather thin, spire acute, suture somewhat impressed; whorls 
 8, convex, the last a little compressed around the upper part ; 
 aperture elongated. Chestnut-brown, shining, light purple 
 within. Ocoee District and Clinch River, Tenn. 

188. G. castanea, Lea. Fig. 250. Club-shaped, smooth, 
 rather thin ; spire elevated, carinate towards the apex, suture 
 narrow; whorls 8, somewhat convex; aperture small, ellipti- 
 cal. Dark brown, purple within. Maury Co., Tenn. 

191. G. adusta, ^n^/i. Figs. 251— 254. Conical, smooth, 
 rather thick; spire elevated, acute, suture linear; whorls 8, 
 flattened, the last slopingly convex; aperture ovate, columella 
 deeply rounded, produced at base. Dark brown, purplish 
 within. Tenn. 

Figs. 251 and 253 represent O. admta; Fig. 253 is Q. funebralis, Anth.; 
 and Fig. 254, G. Cumherlandiensis, Lea. 

192. G. furva, Lea. Conical, rather thick; spire rather 
 elevated, suture furrowed ; whorls flattened ; aperture small, 
 sub-rhomboidal, angular at base. Dusky, purplish within. 
 Coosa River, Ala. 

193. G. dubiosa, Lea. Figs. 255, 256. Conical, smooth, 
 rather thin; spire attenuately conical, sharp-pointed, suture 
 impressed; whorls 10, somewhat convex; aperture rather 
 small, ovate. Reddish horn-color, whitish within. Tenn. 

Fig. 256 is O. Ednhrookii, Lea. 

194. G, laevigata, Lea. Fig. 257. Obtusely conical, 
 smooth, rather thin ; spire rather short, carinate towards the 
 apex, suture linear; whorls 7, somewhat convex; aperture 
 rather large, elliptical, angular at base. Yellowish, white 
 within. Alabama River. 

38 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

195. G. interlineata, Anth. Fig. 258. Elongated, slen- 
 der, thin; spire elevated, suture moderately impressed; whorls 
 7 — 8, sub-convex, smooth ; aperture small, elliptical, slightly- 
 produced at base. Greyish horn-color, alternating with nar- 
 row, brown, longitudinal, hair-like lines. Christy Creek, Ind. 

196. G. Ohioensis, Lea. Fig. 259. Conical, smooth, 
 somewhat thin ; spire obtusely conical, sharp -pointed, carinate 
 at apex, suture very much impressed ; whorls 9, convex ; aper- 
 ture small, somewhat rounded. Horn-color, whitish within. 
 Yellow Springs, Ohio. 

197. G. brevispira, Anfh. Fig. 260. Conical, ovate, 
 smooth, rather solid ; Avhorls 4 — 5, convex ; aperture ovate. 
 Brownish-green, paler at the suture. O/tio. 

198. G. semicarinata, &af/. Figs. 261 — 270. Acutely 
 conical, rather thick, smooth; spire elevated, carinate towards 
 the apex, suture well impressed ; whorls 9, rather convex ; 
 aperture small, elliptical. Yellowish-green or reddish horn- 
 color, generally lighier at the suture, wdiitish within. Tenii., 
 Ky., Ohio, Iml, Ills. 

Fiffs. 261 and 262 represent G. semicarinata ; Fig. 263, O. Kirtlandiana, 
 Lea fFig. 264, O. inornata, Anth.; Fig. 263, O. hicolorata, Antli.; Fig. 266, 
 G. elaia^ Anth.; Fig. 267, G. varicom, Ward ; Fig. 268, G. anguMi.ynra, 
 and Fig. 269, G. Gromvenorii, Lea. Fig. 270, G. bahylonica, Lea, is a genie- 
 late monstrosity of this species. 

199. G. Haldemani, ^/7/'./?^. Fig. 271. Narrowly elonga- 
 ted; spire elevated, suture slightly impressed; whorls 9, 
 smooth, flat, the last sub-angulated at the periphery ; aperture 
 small, sub-rhomboidal. Light horn-color. Lake Erie, Lake 
 Gluimplain. 

200. G. curvilabris, AntJi. Fig. 272. Conical, smooth, 
 rather tliick; spire elevated, suture deeply impressed ; whorls 
 7 — 8, convex, cylindrical, constricted around the middle; aper- 
 ture irregularly oval, lip very much curved. Greenish horn- 
 color, Tenn. 

201. G. informis, T^ea. Fig. 273. Lengthened cylindri- 
 cal; spire elevated, suture moderately impressed ; whorls 6, 
 flatly convex, medially constricted; aperture sub-rhomboidal, 
 angulate below. Dark corneous. Louisville, Ky. 

202. G. vittatella, Lm. Fig. 274. Lengthened, sub- 
 cylindrical, smooth; spire elevated, apex sometimes carinate, 
 suture linear; whorls 8, planalate; aperture small, sub-rhom- 
 boidal. Dark brown, with a single dark band. Cumberland 
 Gap, E. Tenn. 

202. G. Alexandrensis, E^a. Fig. 275. Acutely coni- 
 cal, smooth, narrow, thin; spire elevated, suture moderately 
 impressed; whorls 7, somewhat convex; aperture small, trape- 
 zoidal, a little produced below. Dark horn-color, white with- 
 in. Alexandria, La. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 39 

204. G. Haleiana, Lea. Fig. 276. Subulate, very nar- 
 row, smooth, thin, polished; spire much elevated, suture im- 
 pressed; whorls y, convex; aperture small, ovate, angular at 
 the base. Yellowish horn-color, sometimes with two bands, of 
 which the lower is broadest. Alexandria, La. 

205. G. rubella, Lea. Fig. 277. Awl-shaped, carinate 
 and striate above, rather thin ; spire attenuate, suture very 
 much impressed; whorls 8, very convex; aperture quite 
 small. Reddish, without bands. Murphy, Cherokee C\ N. C. 

206. G. spinelia, Lea. Fig. 278. Much attenuated, smooth, 
 thin; spire elevated, sharp-pointed, suture well impressed; 
 whorls 9, somewhat flattened; aperture very small, ovate. 
 Dark olive. Lighter on the suture, not banded, white within. 
 JSijcamore, GJaibome Co., Ttnn. 

_207. G. Draytonii, Lea. Fig. 279. Smooth, conical, 
 thick ; spire raised, suture very much impressed ; whorls 6, 
 €oavex; aperture small, ovate. Dark chestnut-brown, with- 
 out bands or obscurely banded, dark brown within. Fori 
 George and Walla, Oregon. 

207a. G. nigrina, Lea. Conical, smooth, thin, polished; 
 spire elevated, suture impressed; whorls 6, slopingly convex; 
 aperture small, ovate. Dark olivaceous or nearly black, pur- 
 ple or oliA^aceous within. California. 

Distinguished from G. Draytonii by color and texture. 

208. G. proximia, iSa^. Figs. 281 — 284. Conical, rather 
 slender, smooth, shining; spire acute, carinate, suture much 
 impressed ; whorls 7, slopingly convex ; aperture rather large, 
 rhomboidal. Reddish-brown, with or without bands. N. C, 
 jS. C, Tenn., Alabama River. 

Fig. 281 is appro.rimafK, Hald.; Fig. 283, abjecia, Hald.; Fig. 283, rabri- ' 
 cata, Lea ; Fig. 284, TiiUiaaa, Lea. 

208a. G. rufescens. Lea. Fig. 285. ' Elongated, conical, 
 smooth, rather thin, shining; spire elevated, suture well im- 
 pressed ; whorls 7, convex, carinate towards the apex ; aper- 
 ture small, elliptical, angular below. Dark red, purplish 
 within. Mamma's Greek, Tenn. 

i. Striate species, spire elevated. 

209. G. Virginica, Omel Figs. 286—290. Elongated, 
 conical, smooth, rather thin; whorls 6, the upper ones cari- 
 nate, convex or flattened, either' smooth or with one to ten re- 
 volving striie; aperture elongate-elliptical. Brownish or oliva- 
 ceous, generally with two bands. Middle States. 

A veiy variable species. 

40 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

210. G. sulcosa, Xt'«. Fig. 291. Elongated, conical, thin ; 
 spire elongated, suture well impressed; whorls flattened, trans- 
 versely sulcate ; aperture small, orate. Yellowish. Te7in. 

When perfect specimens are obtained, this may prove to be a species of 

Pleurocera. 

211. G. Buddii, Lea. Fig. 292. Cylindrical, striate, ra- 
 ther thin ; spire attenuated, suture much impressed ; whorls 8, 
 flatly convex ; aperture small, elliptical. Horn-eolor, whitish 
 within. Tenn. 

212. G. Troostiana, Len. Fig. 293. Elevated, thickly 
 striate, thin ; spire elevated, apex acute, carinate ; whorls 10, 
 slightly convex; aperture oval. Brown, generally brown 
 within. Tenn. 

213. G. latitans, Anth. Fig. 29-1. Elevated, obscurely 
 striate^ rather thin ; spire elevated, suture deeply impressed ; 
 whorls 8 — 9, very convex ; lines of growth coarse ; aperture 
 large, oval. Greenish-brown, banded. Mammoth Cave, Ky. 

214. G» porrecta, Leu. Fig. 295. Elongated, attenuate, 
 moderately thick ; spire acuminate, suture canaliculately im- 
 pressed ; whorls 9, flattened, carinate and striate ; aperture 
 small, oval. Blackish-brown, white or brown within. E. 
 Tenn. 

215. G. sculptilis, Lea. Fig. 296. Conical, thin, thickly 
 striate ; spire conical, apex carinate and granulate, suture ir- 
 regularly impressed ; whorls 10, rather flattened, the last 
 bulbous; aperture small, elliptical. Horn-color, white within. 
 Tenn. 

216. G. creuatella, Xm. Fig. 2^7. Narrowly elongated, 
 sub-cylindrical, sub-costate, transversely thickly ridged; spire 
 much elevated, suture much impressed ; whorls 7, flattened ; 
 aperture very small, obliquely oval. Dark brown. Coosa 
 Kivevy Ala. 

[Ta he Go^neluded in April iVo.] 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 

41 

GONIOBASIS, Lea. 

Fig. 23. Fig. 3. Fig. 8. Fig. 4. Fig. 3. 

Fig. 13. Fig. 20. Fig. 6. Fig. 11. Fig. 5. Fig. 16. Fig. 1. 

Fig. 7. Fig. 15. Fig. 13. Fig. 18. Fig. 19. 

Fig. 10. Fig. n. Fig. 14. Fi-. 17. Fig. 9. 

42 

AMERICAN JOURXAL 

GONIOBASIS, Lea. 

Fig. c3. Fig. 24. Fig. 34. Fig. 26. Fig. 27. Fig. do. 

Fig. 23. Fig. 28. Fig. 30. Fig. 2P. Fig. 32. Fig. 31. Fig. 46. 

Fig. 3' 

Fig. 38. Fig. 25. Fig. 42. 

Fig. 43. Fig. 40. Fig. 36. Fig. 39. Fig. 44. Fig. 45. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 

43 

GONIOBASIS, Lea. 

Fig. 58. Fig. 49. Fig. 60. Fig. 57. Fig. 53. 

Fig. 78 Fig. 55. Fig. 47. Fig. 51. Fig. 52. 

Fig. 54. Fig. 65. Fig. 77. Fig. S9. Fig. 70. 

u 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

GONIOBASIS, Lep, 

I 

Fig. 74. Fig. 79. Fig. 71. Fig 48. Fig. 63. 

Fig. 80. Fig. 64. Fig. 50. Fig. 63. Fig. 60] 

Fi?. 76. Fig. 73. Fig. 66. Fig. 73. 

Fig. 67. Fig. 75. Fig. 61. Fig. 68. Fig. 81. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 

45 

GONIOBASIS, Lea. 

Fig. 92. Frr. 9P. Fig. 9oa. Fig. 103. Fig. 82. Fig. 110. 

Fig 98. Fig. 93. 

Fig. 97. Fig. 85. Fig. 100. Fig. 83 

Fig. 84. Fig. 86. Fig. 101. Fig. 84a. Fig. 96. Fig. 94. Fig. 87 

!l 

Fig. 109. Fig. 102. Fig. 10.-). Fig.91. Fig. 111. Fig. 107. Fig. 95. 

Fig. 108. Fig. 112. Fig. 90. Fig. 100. Fig. 104. Fig. 89. Fig. 88. 

46 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

GONIOBASIS, Lea. 

Fig. 130. Fig. 128. Fig. lie. Fig. 126. Fig. 1C9. 

Fig. 121. Fig. 131. Fig. 133. Fig. 127. Fig. 114. 

Fig. 122. Fig. 125. Fig. 118 Fig 120. Fig. 134. Fig. 116. Fig. 123. 

Fig. 119. Fig. 117. Fig. 132. Fig. 124. Fig. lU 

OF CONCIIOLOOT. 

41 

GONIOBASIS, Lea. 

Fig. 153. Fig. 136. Fig. 149. Fig. 151. Fig. 139. 

Fig. 142. Fig. 148. Fig. 187. Fig. 147. Fig. K5. 

Fig. 145. Fig. 141. Fig. 150. Fig. 138. Fis. 144. 

Fi?. 153. Fig. 

ig. 154. Fig. 146. Fig. 140. Fig. 155. Fig. 143. 

48 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

GONIOBASIS, Lea. 

Fig. 156. Fig. 174. Fig. 16G. Fig. 167. Fig. 168. Fig. 161. 

Fig. 165. Fig. 158. Fig. 187. Fig. 172. Fig. 186. Fig. 173. 

Fig. 183. Fig. 184. Fig. 182. Fig. 157. Fig. 176. 

« 4 

i 

Fig. 163. Fig. 162. Fig. 189, Fig. 164. Fig. 188. Fig. 177. 

Fig. 185. Fig. 170. Fig. 190. Fig. 171. Fig. 178. 

Fig. 169. Fig. 160. Fig. 159. Fig. 175. 

OF CONCHOLOGY, 

49 

GONIOBASIS, Lea. 

Fig. 210. Fig. 2C9. Fig. 215. Fig. 214. Fig. 211. 

Fig. 213. Fig. 205. Fig. 207, Fig. 195. Fig. 208. 

Fig. 199. Fig. 217. Fig. 196. Fig. 197a. Fig. 216. Fig. 

% %) 

Fig. 202. Fig. 192. Fig. 206. Fig. 194. Fig. 198. Fig. 201. 

Fig. 200. Fig. 193. Fig. 212. Fig. 197. Fig. 204. Fig. 191. 

50 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

GONIOBASIS, Lea, 

' I ■ £ < 

Fig. 238. Fig. 234. Fig. 231. Fig. 236. Fig. 233. 

Fig. 241. Fig. 230. Fig. 229. Fig. 228. Fig. 227. 

Fig. 240. Fig. 232, Fig. 237. Fig. 224. Fig. 235. 

Fig. 218 Fig. 223. Fig. 225. Fig. 221. 

I I 

Fig. 219. Fig. 222. Fig, 226. Fig. 2c9. Fig. 220. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 

51 

GONIOBASIS, Lea. 

Fig, 252. Fig. 2G4. Fig. 266. 

Fig. 244. Fig. 245. 

Fig. 254. Fig. 256. Fig. 246. Fig. 263. Fig. 265. 

4 

Fig. 258. Fig. 243. Fig. 247. Fig. 267. Fig. 255 

4 

Fig. 257. Fig. 259. Fig. 253. Fig. 250. Fig. 249. 

Fig, ^51. Fig. 242. Fig. 261. Fig. 262. Fig. 260 

62 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

GONIOBASIS, Lea. 

Fig. 292. Fig, 293. Fig. 290. Fig. 294. 

Fig. 284. Fig. 288. Fig. 295. Fig. 289. Fig. 291. Fig. 285. 

Fig. 2G8. Fig. 269. Fig. 272. Fig. 270. Fig, 287. Fig, 271, 

Fig. 278. Fig. 274. Fig. 282. Fig. 283, Fig. 281. Fig. 277 

Fig. 297, Fig, 279. Fig. 275, Fig, 296. Fig. 273, Fig, 276, Fig, 286. 

OP CONCHOLOQY. 63 

NOTE ON HELIX RUFA, DE KAY- 

BY E- MICHENER, M.D., AVONDALE, CHESTER CO., PA. 

Mr. Wm. G. Binney, when speaking of Helix alholabris, 
 Say, remarks, tkat "JleUx rufa, DeKay, appears to be the 
 young of this species." — "Supplement to Binney's Terrestrial 
 Mollusks/' p. 44. 

Again, under Helix thyroides, Say, speaking of its varieties, 
 he says:— "One from Grermantown. Pa., is very small, mea- 
 suring only 15 millimetres in diameter. It is globose, shining, 
 sometimes imperforate, and generally without the parietal 
 tooth. It is impossible to distinguish it from forms of H. hue- 
 ■culentar Of the latter, he gives H. thyroides, var. B. of 
 Pfeiflfer, as a synonym. 

Now, the Germantown variety of H. thyroides also occurs 
 in this \dcinity, and agrees exactly with DeKay's description 
 of H. rufa. I have not, however, found it imperforate, and 
 the parietal tooth is generally slightly developed in mature 
 shells. 

The young shells of H. alholahris and H. thyroides closely 
 resemble each other, perhaps cannot be distinguished, except 
 by color in the rufous variety of the latter. 

I would designate this shell as 

Helix thyeoides, var. eufa, 

Synonym, Helix rufa, De Kay, 

and if it is "impossible" to distinguish between this and H. 
 buceulenta, Grid., I would add it also to the synonymy.* 

* Note by the Editor.— We. think, with our correspondent, that H. buc- 
 eulenta is, probably, identical with DeKay' s species ; at least, we can per- 
 ceive no difference between it and what has hitherto been regarded as the 
 Philadelphia form of II. thyroides. The more globose form, darker color, 
 smaller size, etc., serve to distinguish it from thyroides. We are inclined 
 to consider it a distinct species, however, rather than a variety. Its geo- 
 graphical distribution is extensive. DeKay gives the localities, Rockland 
 and Orange Counties, New York; and Dr. Gould, Georgia to Texas. To 
 these I add the following, of specimens in my cabinet, Newbern, N. C; 
 Antietam, Md.; Trenton and Atlantic City, N. J.; Germantown, Pa, 

54 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

REMARKS ON THE ORIGIN AND DISTRIBUTION OF 

THE OPERCULATED LAND SHELLS WHICH 

INHABIT THE CONTINENT OF AMERICA 

AND THE WEST INDIES, 

WITH A CATALOGUE OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES. 

BY THOMAS BLAND. 

In a paper "On tlie Geographical Distribution of tlie Genera 
 and Species of Land Shells of the West India Islands, with a, 
 Catalogue of the Species of each Island," (Annals of the Lyceum, 
 N. Y., VIL, 1861), I referred to Darwin's remark, that "the spe- 
 cies of all kinds, which inhabit Oceanic islands, are few in num- 
 ber, compared with those on equal continental areas," and 
 that the affinity of the inhabitants of islands is "to those of 
 the nearest mainland, without being actually the same species.'' 

I observed, that "the generic affinity of the land shells of 
 the West India Islands to those of the adjacent parts of the 
 American Continent is certainly intimate, but the existence of 
 several genera, not represented on the Continent, shows other 
 relationships, — the operation, it may be, of local causes. See- 
 ing, moreover, the greater number of both genera and species, 
 absolutely and proportionately, in the islands under considera- 
 tion, it may not unreasonably be suggested that the insular 
 stamp has rather been impressed on the fauna of the adjacent 
 Continent, than the revei'se." 

With reference to the questions above noticed, I propose to 
 offer some further observations on the relations of the land 
 shell faunas of the American Continent and the West Indies 
 to each other, and to the faunas of other countries. My re- 
 marks, for the present, will be confined to the origin and dis- 
 tribution of the operculated shells. I adopt the classification 
 of Pfeiffer (Mon., 1865), giving the total number of genera 
 and species in each Family and Subfamily, and the names 
 (with number of species) of the genera represented in America 
 and the West Indies. I indicate the numbers of species which 
 occur in North America (excluding Mexico), Mexico (exclu- 
 sive of Lower California), Central America (including Yuca- 

OF CONCHOLOGY, 55 

tan), Soufh America (including tlie whole of New Grenada), 
 and the West Indies. In using the term orirfin, applied to 
 Families, Subfamilies and Genera, I refer to the country in 
 which there is the maximum specific representation. 

PNEUMONOPOMA. 

Subordo. I.— OPISOPHTHALMA. 

Fam. I.— ACICULACBA. 

Origin. — West Indies ; 4 genera, 67 species. 

Total Species. N. Am. Mex. C. Am. S. Am. W. I., especially. 

Geomelania, 21 — — — — 21 Jamaica. 

Chittya, 1 — — — — 1 " 

Truncatella, 39 5 2 — 2 16 Cuba. 

Fam. II.— DIPPLOMATINACEA. 

Origin. — Asia and Oceanica; 3 genera, 23 species; no re- 
 presentation in America or West Indies. 

Subordo. II.— ECTOPHTHALMA. 

Fam. I.— CYCLOSTOMACEA. 

Subfam. — Ogdotea.^' 

* I alter the order in which the names of Subfamilies are given bj 
 Pfeiffer, for the purpose of bringing together those of similar origin. 

Origin. — Asia; 7 genera, 190 species. 

Total Species. N.Am. Mex. C. Am. S.Am. W. I., especially. 
 CvcLOTus, 111 — 2 4 l(j 40 Jamaica. 

Subfam. — Cyclopliorea. 

Origin. — Asia and Oceanica,; 5 genera, 228 species. Cras- 
 PEDOPOMA (5 species) belongs to the Azores and Canaries. 

Total Species. N.Am. Mex. C.Am. S.Am. W. I., especially. 

Cyclophorus. 163 — 3 3 8 6 Martinique and 

Subfam. — Pu])inea. 
 Origin. — Asia; 9 genera, 89 species. 

Guadeloupe. 

Total Species. N. Am. Mex. C. Am. S. Am. W. I., especially. 

Megalomastoma, 27 — — 2 1 17 Cuba. 

Subfam. — Realiea. 

Origin. — Asia (Oceanica), 5 genera, 75 species. 

Total Species. N.Am. Mex. C.Am. S.Am. W. I., esfeeially. 

Hydrocena, 27 — — — 1 — 

bourciera, 2 2 

56 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Subfam. — Cychstmnea. 
 Origin. — Africa; 5 genei\a, 172 species. 

Total Species. N. Am. Mex. C. Am. S. Anh. W. I., espeeiallj-. 
 Cyclostomus» 113 — — — — 23 Jamaica. 

TuDORA, 34 — 1 — — 28 "■ 

Subfam. — Po'inatiaten. 

Origin. — Europe; 1 genus, 24 species; not found in America 
 or the "West Indies. 

Subfam. — Lidnea. 

Origin. — West Indies; 7 genera, 101 species. Tlie g-enus. 
 Oyclotopsis (2 species) is peculiar to Asia. 

Total Species. K. Am. Mex. C.Am. S Am. W. I. , esp««ially. 

Jamaicea, 2 — — — — 2 JaBaaica. 

LiciNEA, 6 — — — — 4 Cuba? Haiti? 

Choanopoma^ 49 — — — — 49 Cuba, Jamaica^ 

Ctenopoma, 25 — — — — 25 Cuba. 

DiPLOPOMA, 1 — — — — 1 " 

Adamseell^,. 1(> — — 1 1 12 Jamaica. 

Subfam, — Cistttlea. 
 Origin. — West Indies ; 2 genera, 134 species. 

Total Species. N. Am. Mex. C. Am. S^ Am. W. I., especially. 
 CiSTULA, 40 — 1 8 2 26 Cuba. 

Chondropoma^ 94 1 3 2 4 SI *•' Haiti. 

Fam. 11.— HELICINACEA. 

Subfam. — Stoastamea. 

Origin. — West Indies; 1 genus, 83> species^ of wbicli 1 oc- 
 curs in the Island of Opara. 

Total Species. N.Am. Mex. C.Am.. S. Ami. W. I., especially. 
 Stoastoma, 83 — — — — 82 Jamaica. 

Subfam. — Helicineu. 
 Origin. — West Indies ; 5 genera,. 844 species. 

Subfam. — Georissea. 

Origin. — Asia ; 1 genus, 4 species ; peculiar to Asia. 

Totals, 55 genera, 1534: species. Total species on the Ameri- 
 can Continent 150, beimg about 10 per cent., and in the West 
 Indies 599 sp.ecies, being 39 per cent, of the known opercula- 
 ted land shells, excluding those referred to by Pfeifler as "in- 
 certse sedis vel ormnina dubia.''^ 

OP CONCIIOLOGY. ST 

It appears from the foregoing, if the origin of Families only 
 be considered, that the origin and distribution of the opercu- 
 lated species in America and the West Indies, is as follows: — 

150 100 599 100 

This would lead to the inference that the Asiatic and West 
 Indian influences are not far from equal in the Islands, and 
 that the latter predominates on the Continent. 

If, however, the origin of Families and Subfamilies (in those 
 cases in which the former are subdivided) be considered, — by 
 no means an unreasonable way of treating the question, — the 
 results are very striking. 

150 100 599 100 

The greater African influence in the Islands, and Asiatic on 
 the Continents, is rather to be expected, on the supposition 
 that America would receive African colonists from the West 
 Indies, and the latter Asiatic colonists from the former. 

The following table, prepared on the same basis as- the one 
 immediately preceding, shows, in a very interesting manner, 
 the various degrees in which the African, Asiatic and West 
 Indian influences appear to have been exerted in different sec- 
 tions of the American Continent: — 

37 100 39 100 63 100 
 Total on the Continents, 150 species. 

It will be noticed (from the last table), that the African in- 
 fluence is manifest only in Mexico, where the Asiatic influence 
 is at its minimum, and the West Indian (the rest of North 
 America excepted) at its maximum ; that the Asiatic influence 
 is greatest in South America, diminishing towards the North, 
 while the West Indian influence has its maximum in the North, 
 and becomes gradually less towards the South. 

It is remarkable that on the Continent of America there 
 is no peculiar genus of operculated shells, save Bourciera 
 {Gyclostomacea), of which 2 species only are known, and 
 Schasicheila [Helicinacea), embracing 5 species, while in the 
 Islands there are very many strictly West Indian genera re- 
 presented by a multiplicity of species. 

58 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

The facts regarding the distribution of the operciilated land 
 shells most certainly do not support the statement of Darwin, 
 that "the species of all kinds which inhabit Oceanic islands 
 are few in number, compared with those on equal continental 
 areas;" but they do lead to the conclusion, in the case under 
 consideration, that the insular stamp, as I have elsewhere ob- 
 served, has rather been impressed on the fauna of the adjacent 
 continents, than the reverse. 

I have not closely examined the subject, but believe that 
 the distribution of operculated species in other islands or 
 groups of islands (for example, Madagascar and Ceylon) show 
 the same connection with the continents adjacent to them, as 
 exists between the West Indies and America. The question 
 is suggested. Are the faunas of the islands more ancient than 
 those of the continents? 

It is a noticeable fact, bearing on the relationship of the 
 American and West Indian operculated shell faunas, that the 
 identical species common to both are very few. 

The following are the only examples known to me : — 

Cijdotus translucidus^ Sowb., Columbia and Ins. Trinidad, 

Chondropoma dentahim, Say, Florida and Cuba. ' .' 

Helicina suhglohulosa, Poey, " " 

" Dysoni, Pfr., Honduras and Ins. Trinidad. 

Several species of Truncatella are common to both faunas, 
 but the habits of that genus are rather maritime than terres- 
 trial. 

On a future occasion I may attempt a similar inquiry rela- 
 tive to the origin and distribution of the inoperculated species. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 

59 

CATALOGUE OF THE OPERCULATED LAND SHELLS 
 WHICH INHABIT THE CONTINENT OF AMERICA. 

[Note. — In the following Catalogue, the Genera and Spe- 
 cies are arranged in the order adopted by Pfeifter (Mon. 1865), 
 and the numbers are given of the sections (§) into which he 
 divides the Genera.] 

PNEUMONOPOMA. 

Subordo. L— OPISOPHTHALMA. 

Fam.— ACICULACEA. 
 Truncatella, 

§ 2 suhcylindrica, Grav, Florida, W. Indies. 

Galifornica, Pfr., California. 

pulchella, Pfr., Florida, W. Indies. 

8 Garibseensis, Sowb., Florida, Mexico, W. Indies. 

Bairdiana, Ad., Panama. 

bilahiata, Pfr., Florida, Mexico, W. Indies. 

4 rostrata, Gould, Brazil. 

Subordo. II.— ECTOPHTHALMA. 
 Fam.— CYCLOSTOMACEA. 

Subfam. I. — Cychtea. 
 Cyclotus. 
 § 1 giganteus, Gray, Columbia. 

Quitensis, Pfr., Quito, N. Grenada. 

Dunkeri, Pfr., Equador, N. Grenada. 

Inca, Orb., Venezuela, Bolivia. 

translucidus^ Sowb., , Columbia, Guatemala, 

Ins. Trinidad. 
 Popayanus, Lea., N. Grenada. 

prominulus, Fer., Brazil. 

2 angulatus, Sowb., N. Grenada. 

granulatus, Pfr., Equador. 

Bogotensis, Pfr., N. Grenada. 

60 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

3 laxatus, Sowb., 

4 stramineus, Ev., 
 Dysoni, Pfr., 

4 glaucostomus, Pfr., 
 hisinuatus, Martens, 

5 distinctus, Sowb., 
 9 Berendti, Pfr., 

discoidetis, Sowb., 
 10 ineom2otus, Sowb., 

Subfam. II. 

Columbia. 

Columbia. 

Mexico, Ilouduras. 

Venezuela. 

Costarica. 

Columbia. 

Mexico. 

Demerara. 

N. Grenada. 

■Gychphorea. 

Cyclopiiorus. 

8 Mexkanus^ Menke, 
 12 lutescens, Pfr., 

15 fpurus, Forbes, 
 Gumingi, Sowb., 
 haematomma, Pfr., 
 Bourcieri^ Pfr., 
 Ouayaquillensis, Sowb., 

psiloTnitus, Pfr., 
 ? Oayi, Hupe, 

16 ponderosus, Pfr., 
 Boucardi, Salld, 
 texturatus, Sowb., 
 Gayennensis^ Shuttl., 

17 fMoricandi, Pfr., 

Mexico. 

Mexico. 

Central America. 

Columbia. 

Equador. 

Equador. 

Guayaquil. 

Venezuela. 

Chili. 

Guatemala. 

Mexico. 

Guatemala, 

French Guiana. 

Brazil. 

Subfam. III. — Pupinea. 
 Megalomastoma. 

1 hifasciatum, Sowb., 
 3 simulacrum^ Mor., 
 Guatemalense, Pfr., 

Guayaquil. 
 Guatemala. 
 Guatemala. 

Subfam, IV. — Licinea. 

Adamsiella. 

4 chlorostoma, Sowb., 
 Osherti, Tristram, 

Demerara. 
 Guatemala. 

Subfam. — Gyclostomea. 
 TUDORA. 

2 planosp)ira, Pfr., Mexico. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 

61 

Subfam. — Oistulea. 

CiSTULA. 

§1 
 2 

pletirophora^ Pfr., 
 radiosa, Mor,, 
 Tamsiana, Pfr., 
 Oruneri, Pfr., 
 K'dsteri, Pfr., 
 ? acerhula^ Mor., 
 Thoreyana, Phil,, 
 Gratelmqn, Pfr., 
 Largillierti, Pfr., 
 rigidula, Mor., 
 trocldearis, Pfr., 

Honduras. 
 Guatemala. 
 Venezuela. 
 Honduras. 
 Honduras. 
 Guatemala. 
 Bolivia. 

Yucatan, West Indi 
 Yucatan. 
 Guatemala. 
 Mexico, Guatemala. 
 Chondropoma. 

plicatulum, Pfr., Venezuela. 

Venezuelense, Pfr., Venezuela. 

Gumanense, Pfr., Cumana. 

f vespertinum, Mor., Mexico. 

dentatitm, Saj, Florida, Cuba. 

.^<wm^?«w, Pfr., Honduras. 

subauriculatum, Pfr., Cumana. 

ruhicundum, Mor., Guatemala. 

Gordovanum, Pfr., Mexico. 

trimcatum, Wiegm., Mexico ? 

Subfam. — Healiea. 

HyDROCEjSTA. 

Bridrjesi, Pfr., Cliili. 

BOURCIERA. 
 helicinseformis, Pfr., Equador. 

Frctseri, Pfr., Equador." 

Fam.— HELICINEA. 

Trochatella. 

§ 4 seinilirata, Pfr., 

§ 1 imidentata, Pfr., 

/M'oto, Pfr., 
 3 Mohriana, Pfr., 

microdina, Mor., 
 5 exigua^ Pfr., 

8 sanguined, Pfr., 
 occulta, Say, 

9 crassilahris, Phil. 

Venezuela. 
 Helicina. 

Ins. Carmen, Honduras. 
 , Mexico, Yucatan. 
 Mexico. 
 Guatemala. 
 Honduras. 
 Honduras. 
 Indiana, U. S, 
 Venezuela? 

62 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

11 Funcld, Pfr., 
 delicatula, STiuttl., 
 pellucida, Sowb., 
 fragilis, Mor., 

12 Tamsiana, Pfr., 
 raresulcata, Pfr,, 
 sordida, King, 
 arenicola, Mor., 

13 chrysocheila, Binn., 
 turhinata, Wiegm., 
 Deppeana, Martens, 
 Sandozi, Sliuttl., 
 zephyrina, Duclos., 
 Berendti, Pfr., 
 Chiajyensis, Pfr., 
 Sprucei, Pfr., 
 tenuis, Pfr., 

13 vernalis, Mor., 
 Oweniana, Pfr., 
 tropica, Jan., 
 orhiculata, Say, 
 eZata, Shuttl., 

14 riparia, Pfr., 
 merdigera, Salle, 
 Paraensis, Pfr., 
 Antoni, Pfr., 

15 sinuosa, Pfr., 
 Seloisee, Salle, 
 notata, Salle, 
 hsemastoma, Moric, 
 chrysocheila, Shuttl., 
 Sanleyana, Pfr., 
 flavida, Menke, 
 /S'irefte/?:, Pfr., 
 hrevilahris, Pfr., 

16 sylvatica. Orb., 
 Dytoni, Pfr., 

diaphana, Pfr., 

17 oresigena, Orb., 

18 fulva, Orb., 
 Braziliensis, Gray, 

19 Sowerhyana, Pfr., 
 Columbiana, Phil., 
 gonochila, Pfr., 

20 Lindeni, Pfr., 
 suhglohulosa, Poey, 

N. Granada. 

Mexico. 

French Guiana. 

Guatemala. 

Venezuela. 

Mexico. 

Brazil. 

Yucatan. 

North America ? 

Mexico. 

Mexico. 

Mexico. 

Mexico. 

Mexico. 

Mexico. 

Peru. 

Mexico, Yucatan, W. Indies? 

Guatemala. 

Mexico. 

Texas. 

Florida, Texas. 

Mexico. 
 N. Grenada. 

Mexico, Guatemala. 

Brazil. 

Honduras. 

Mexico ? 

Mexico. 

Mexico. 

Brazil. 

Mexico. 

Louisiana. 

Mexico, Guatemala. 

Mexico. 

Mexico. 

Bolivia. 

Honduras, Venezuela, 

Ins. Trinidad. 

Honduras. 

Bolivia. 

Bolivia. 

Brazil. 

Guatemala. 

Columbia. 

Venezuela. 

Mexico, Guatemala. 

Florida, West Indies. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 

63 

maculata, Sowb., 
 Chryseis, Tristram. 
 21 amoena, Pfr., 
 23 Ghiesbreghti, Pfr., 
 Kieneri, Pfr., 
 caracoUa, Moric, 
 cincteUa, Shuttl., 

23 concentrica, Pfr., 
 carinata, Orb., 
 Lundi, Beck, 

24 Candeana, Orb., 

26 angulata^ Sowb., 

27 5e5c/te?; Pfr., 
 variabilis, Wagn., 
 Tiki, Pfr., 

28 rostrata, Mor., 
 Salvini, Tristram, 
 rhynchostoma, Sbuttl. 
 denticulata^ Pfr., 

South America. 

Guatemala. 

Honduras. 

Mexico. 

Venezuela. 

Brazil. 

Mexico. 

Venezuela, N. Grrenadj 

Bolivia. 

Brazil. 

Venezuela. 

Brazil. 

Brazil. 

Brazil. 

Brazil. 

Guatemala. 

Guatemala. 

Columbia. 

Honduras. 

SCHASICHEILA. 

Nicoleti, Shuttl., Mexico. 

alata, Menke, Mexico. 

? pannucea^ Mor., Guatemala, 

Alcadia. 
 ? sericea, Drouet, Cayenne. 

Note. — I find that, in the foregoing paper and Catalogue, 
 Cyclotus Cooperi, Tryon, (Phila. Proc, 1863,) of Mexico, has 
 been omitted. Pfeiffer has also overlooked it. 

64 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

NOTE ON THE INTERNAL STRUCTURE OP 
 MEGASPIRA. 

BY THOMAS BLAND. 

Lea gave the generic name of Merjaspira (Obs. II., p. 21,) to 
 Pupa elatior, Spix, which, with the allied species elata, Gould, 
 was placed by Pfeiffer (Mon. II. and III.) in 
 the genus Balea. In his last Supplement 
 (Mon. IV.), Pfeift'er adopts 3Ie;jas2)ira, consid- 
 ering it entitled to generic rank. 

In a late examination- of the internal 
 structure of species of CylindreUse, I opened 
 a specimen of Megasjiira elatior, and finding 
 it extremely curious, and, so far as I can 
 learn, hitherto unnoticed by authors, I now 
 describe it. 

In the centre and on the under side of the 
 septa, beginning at about the twelfth whorl from the apex, 
 there is a raised lamina, which is continued to the aperture, 
 where it terminates on the parietal wall. 

A single lamina revolves on the axis in the upper whorls, but 
 lower down, where the septal lamina commences, there are two 
 or three, the lowest projecting obliquely, and with a sinuous 
 margin, which is obsolete on the last whorl. These axial 
 laminre terminate on the columellar margin of the aperture. 
 Within several of the lower whorls, on the septa, there are 
 two or three curved lamellse, at right angles with the axis, 
 some of them armed with a hook, the point of which is di- 
 rected towards the axis. 

The transverse lamellse and lamina, of peculiar form, with 
 sinuous margin, I have not observed in any species of Gylin- 
 drella. Of the alliances of Megaspira with other genera, 
 shown by the buccal plate and lingual band, I have not seen 
 any notice. 

OF CONCIIOLOGY. 65 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF MIOCENE FOSSILS, WITH 
 DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES. 

BY T. A. CONRAD, 

NASSID^. 

NASSA, Lam. 

Subgenus, BULLIOPSIS, Conrad. 

This subgenus is distinguished by the absence of conspicu- 
 ous strige or ribs, while the species are variable in form, and 
 the labrum is without lines within, 

N. QUADRATA, Conrad. — PL 3, fig. 1. 

Description. — Ovately turrited ; whorls scalariform, with an 
 obtuse revolving ridge on the angle; body whorl slightly con- 
 tracted below the ridge ; columella callous, with the deposit 
 broad. 

N. quadrata, Conrad. — Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., Vol. VI., p. 
 226, pi. 9, fig. 16. 

This is a variable, but distinct species ; on the body whorl 
 are indistinct revolving lines near the base, and occasionally 
 irregular obsolete lines on the ridge. 

Locality. — St. Mary's Co., Md. 
 N. Marylandica, Conrad. — PI. 3, fig. 3. 

Description. — Oblong-ovate, entire ; whorls 6. slightly con- 
 vex; body whorl slightly flattened laterally; suture impressed; 
 spire conical; columella callous, broad and thick on the sum- 
 mit; aperture about half the length of the shell. 

Bullia Marylandica, Conrad. — Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., 
 1862, p. 287. 

Locality. — St. Mary's Co., Md. 

66 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

N. INTEGRA, Conrad. — PL 3, fig. 5. 

Description. — Ovate; spire conical; whorls convex; body 
 whorl ventricose ; aperture elliptical, nearly half the shell's 
 length ; columella thick and reflexed, but without a promi- 
 nent callus. 

Buccinum integrum, Conrad. — Proceed. National Institution, 
 p. 194. 

Variety, OVATA, Conrad. — PI. 3, fig. 4. (Proceed. Acad. Nat. 
 Sciences, 1862, p. 287.) 

Locality. — Calvert Cliffs, Md. 
 N. SUBCYLINDRICA, Conrad. 

Description. — Ovately turrited, sub-cylindrical ; body whorl 
 slightly contracted ; base with revolving lines ; summits of 
 the whorls slightly flattened or sub-scalariform. 

This species differs from N. quadrata, in being without re- 
 volving lines at base, without a revolving ridge below the su- 
 ture, and in having the whorls only slightly flattened at sum- 
 rait. These four species have been determined by a compari- 
 son of the young shells of each form. 

VOLUTIDJE. 
 VOLUTIFUSUS, Conrad. 

Description. — Fusiform ; body whorl finely striated or 
 smooth, with the exception of the shoulder, which is some- 
 times tuberculated ; columella plaited, folds 2 to 3, sometimes 
 very prominent, oblique; apex papillated; initial whorl acute, 
 sub-spiral, narrow ; beak produced, recurved or sinuous. 

This genus, so long confounded with Valuta, is remarkably 
 characteristic of Miocene strata in Europe and America. Its 
 narrow base and recurved beak distinguish it from the former. 
 The species are more variable and difficult to distinguish than 
 those of Voluta. The only recent form with which they 
 might be regarded as congeneric is Voluta duhia, Broderip. 
 The species in this country are: — V. Trenhohnii^ Tuomey and 
 Holmes; F. oifitsa, Emmons ;• F. so Z^VaWa, Conrad; V.inuta- 
 hilis, Conrad, and V. typus, Conrad. Those of Europe: — 1^. 
 Lamherti, Sowerby ; V. Tarhelliana, Grateloup ; V. auris- 
 leporis, (Sowerby,) Grat. There is no true Voluta in the Ter- 
 tiary formations of North America. The recent genus is al- 
 most exclusively limited to Australia, Southern Africa, and 
 the Indian Ocean. V. Junonia (genus Scaphella, Swainson,) 
 is the only one of the living Volutidx on the United States 
 coast. It inhabits the waters of the keys near Tampa Bay, 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 6Y 

where I found fragments and saw a whole specimen. Also 
 South Carolina, on the authority of Dr. Ravenel. 

The V. musica is the only species which can be certainly re- 
 ferred to Valuta, as restricted, in the West Indies. 

V. TYPUS, Conrad.— PI. 3, fig. 2. 

Description. — Fusiform, thick in substance; whorls 6, be- 
 sides the initial one, slightly concave above, with an angle 
 near the suture, obscurely plicated; labrum thick near the 
 summit, with an acute margin; columella with two distinct, 
 little prominent folds ; beak sinuous. 

Locality. — ^North Carolina. 

CANCELLARID^. 

CANCELLARIA, Lam. 

C. PERSPECTiVA, Conrad. — PI. 3, fig. 6. 

Description. — Sub-globose, with irregular, oblique, promi- 
 nent, narrow, distant ribs, and prominent, flattened, revolving 
 strise, with an intermediate fine line ; spire very short, conical ; 
 whorls profoundly channelled at the suture; aperture ovate; 
 labrum with short, prominent lines within, and the margin 
 undulated; umbilicus large, exhibiting the volutions to tlie 
 apex, alternately striated within, margin acute ; columella 
 with 3 plaits, the upper one largest, and the lowest one small. 

Locality. — James River, Virginia, near Smithfield. 

C. BiPLiciFERA, Conrad. — PI. 3, fig. 9. 

Description. — Sub-ovate, with rather thick, prominent ribs, 
 and revolving, broad strise, and an intermediate fine line; ribs 
 slightly convex ; summits of the whorls Avidely and deeply 
 channelled; shoulder coronated; umbilicus small; columella 
 concave, biplicate. 

C. hiplicifera, Conrad. — Journ. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Vol. 
 VIIL, p. 187. 

Locality. — Calvert Cliffs, Md. 

C. ALTERNATA, Conrad. — PI. 4, fig. 7. 

Description. — Whorls 6, rounded, with nine oi- ten promi- 
 nent ribs, and prominent revolving distant stria?, and an inter- 
 mediate fine line; spire conical; aperture less than half the 
 length of the shell, sub-ovate ; columella 3-plaited, plaits de- 
 creasing in size towards the base; umbilicus small; summits 
 of volutions flattened ; 5 of the larger revolving lines on the 
 penultimate whorl. 

G. alternata, Conrad. — Journ. Acad. Nat. Sciences, V^ol. 
 VII., p. 155. 

6S AMERICAN JOURNAL 

C. ENGONATA, Conrad. — PI. 4, fig. 8. 

Descri'ption. — Short-fusiform, longitudinally ribbed, witli 
 prominent revolving lines, about 12 in number, from the 
 shoulder to base; whorls 5 ; spire conical, scalariform ; aper- 
 ture lunate; columella three-plaited, the middle one very 
 oblique. 

C. enqonata^ Conrad. — Journ. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Vol. 
 VIII., p. 188. 

Locality.— QaXYQvt Cliffs, Md. 
 C. PLAGIOSTOMA, Conrad.— PI. 4, fig. 15. 

Description. — Short-fusiform, with numerous prominent ribs, 
 and distant, prominent revolving lines; spire scalariform ; 
 whorls 6, with one prominent revolving line on the flattened 
 summit; aperture more than half the shell's length; colum- 
 ella three-plaited, the superior one very prominent, and con- 
 tinued into a ridge revolving to the base ; base narrow, slight- 
 ly produced and twisted ; sub-umbilicated. 

C. plagiostoma, Conrad.- — Journ. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Vol. 
 VII., p. 136. 

Locality. — James Eiver, near Smithfield, Virginia. 
 C. SCALARINA, Conrad. — PI. -1, fig. 17. 

Description. — Sub-fusiform; volutions 6; ribs numerous, 
 prominent ; revolving lines very prominent, distant, four on 
 the penultimate whorl below the angle, and four or five close, 
 fine lines above ; spire scalariform, prominent ; aperture less than 
 lialf the shell's length; labrum without lines, but with slight 
 furrows, corresponding to the ribs opposite ; columella three- 
 plaited, the two lower folds approximate; base slightly pro- 
 duced, sub-acute. 

Ljocality. — Virginia ? 

MUPJCIDJ^.. 

BUSYCON, Bolten. 
 B. ALVEATUM, Conrad. — PL 3, fig. 7. 

Description. — Pyriform or sub-fusiform ; substance mode- 
 rately thick; spire prominent, scalariform, angle of whorls 
 situated much above the middle, carinated on tlie angle : 
 summit channelled, the canal margined by a prominent line, 
 broad on the body whorl ; space between the two revolving 
 lines slightly concave; columella Avith a salient angle on its 
 lower half. 

Locality. — St. Mary's River, Md. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 69 

A mucli smaller species than its nearest congener B. incik, 
 with angular volutions, less ventricose, and an angular col- 
 umella, which in the other is rounded; the sutural channel is 
 much less profound. 

B. STEIATUM, Conrad. — PI. 3, fig. 8. 

Description. — Pyriform ; spire moderately prominent, coni- 
 cal; whorls nearly straight or indistinctly concave laterally; 
 angles immediately above the suture furnished with numerous 
 small, close tubercles; suture impressed, not channelled; sur- 
 face covered with distinct revolving rugose lines, except a 
 space on the lower part of the body whorl, where they arc 
 finer, and about four in number ; labrum within striated 
 throughout its whole length. 

Locality. — Virginia or Marjdand. 

CYPnJFAJ)M. 
 CYPR^A, Lin. 

C. ANN-DLiFERA, Courad. — PI. -i, fig. 19. 

Proceed. Acad. Kat. Sciences, 1862, p. 567. 
 This species is approximate to C. annularia, Brong. 

EULIMID^. 

NISO, Risso. 
 N. LiNEATA, Conrad. — PI. 4, fig. 13. 

Description. — Subulate, polished, with obsolete revolving- 
 lines ; body whorl angulated and slightly carinated at its 
 greatest diameter ; whorls 10 or 11, with a deep angular groove 
 at the suture. 

Bonellia lineata^ Conrad. — Journ. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Vol. 
 VIII., p. 188. 

Xoca%.— Calvert Cliffs, Md. 

AUEICULID^. 

TIF AT A ? A. and H. Adams. 

T. LONGIDENS, Conrad. — PI. 4, fig. 12. 

Descriptions. — Acutely oval ; spire conical, apex mucronate ; 
 whorls 7; suture profound; aperture very narrow, dentato- 
 striate within ; columella with an elongated, slightly curved 
 plait, directed obliquely upwards. 

70 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Melampus longidens, Conrad. — Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 
 1862, p. 584. 

Locality. — Yorktown, Virginia. 

I had referred this shell to a new subgenus, Ensiphorus, as 
 it has only the one large fold, but it is, more probably, a true 
 Tifata, although that genus has two columellar folds. 

SAXICAVID^. 
 SAXICAVA, Belle vue. 
 S. PAEiLis, Conrad. — PL 4, fig. 6. 

Description. — Sub-oval, ventricose, equilateral, very thin in 
 substance, end margins nearly equally rounded, summit 
 |)rominent, lines of growth minute. 

Loccdity. — Shiloh, N. J. 

ANATINID^. 

PERIPLOMA, Schum. 
 P. ALTA, Conrad.— PI. 4, fig. 10. 

Description. — Obtusely ovate in the adult, substance thin; 
 sub-orbicular when young; posteriorly ventricose ; anterior 
 side sub-rostrated, compressed; the end truncated, direct, much 
 above the basal line, which is profoundly rounded ; anterior 
 submargin of the right valve with a slightly raised line, ante- 
 rior to which the valves are suddenly contracted. 

Locality. — Shiloh, Cumberland Co., N. J. 

This large species is abundant, but always more or less dis- 
 torted in the adult specimens, so that the large figure is only 
 approximate, but the young appears to have its original form, 
 as given in the figure. It is allied to the very small species 
 of the Southern coast, P. papyratia (Anatina), Say, which is 
 represented in fig. 9 for comparison, and is the only figure yet 
 published of that recent species. P. alia is unknown in any 
 other locality than Shiloh. 

THRACIA, Leach. 
 T. MY^FORMis, Conrad. — PI. 4, fig. 3. 

Description. — Ovate, inequilateral; posterior side somewhat 
 produced, compressed, much reflexed ; the end acutely 
 rounded. 

Saxicava myseformis, Conrad. — Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 

1862, p. 585. 
 Locality. — With the preceding. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. tl 

This small species has much resemblance in outline and 
 surface to Mya arenaria. 

The figure is only approximate to the true outline^ as the 
 shell is slightly crushed. 

MACTEIDiE. 

SPISDLA, Gray. 

S. CAPILLARIA, Conrad. — PI. 3, fig. 10. 

Description. — Triangular, subequilateral; umbo prominent; 
 lunule not defined; surface with prominent or coarse lines of 
 growth; anterior margin very regularly rounded; posterior side 
 sub-cuneate, slightly contracted or flattened on the disk; um- 
 bonal slope abrupt, but undefined by an angle, except on the 
 umbo; posterior slope with hair-like, oblique lines; lateral 
 teeth striated with minute, but distinct lines. 

Locality. — James River? Va. 

TELLTNID^. 

TELLINA, Lin. 
 Subgenus, ANGULUS, Muhlfeldt. 

T. PERACUTA, Conrad. — PI, 4, fig. 11. 

Description. — Elliptical, subequilateral ; posteriorly rostrated 
 and acute. 

Locality.— '^h.Woh, Cumberland Co., N. J. 

A small species, allied to T. polita, Say, but longer in pro- 
 portion, and more acute. 

Subgenus, TELLINELLA1 Gray. 

T. CAPILLIFERA, Conrad. — PL 4, fig. 2. 

Description. — Triangular, inequilateral,, very thin in sub- 
 stance ; umbonal slope of right valve slightly carinated, sub- 
 marginal, straight, bounded posteriorly by a slightly impressed 
 line, end sub-truncated, much above the line of the base ; sur- 
 face with minute, close, hair-like, concentric lines on the ante- 
 rior side ; lateral teeth prominent ; left valve ventricose. 

Locality. — Shiloh, Cumberland Co., N. J. 

The extreme fragility of this shell has prevented me from 
 ascertaining the hinge of the deeper valve, and the species is, 
 therefore, only provisionally referred to Tellinella. 

MYSIA, Leach. 

M. PARILIS, Conrad. — PI. 4, fig. 1. 

Description. — Equilateral, nearly circular, ventricose, thin 
 and fragile ; basal and anterior margin regularly rounded. 

Locality. — Shiloh, Cumberland Co., N. J. 

Y2 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

ASTARTE, Sowerby. 

A. COMPSONEMA, Conrad. — PI. 4, fig. 18. 

Descrii^tion. — Sub-triangular, inequilateral, slightly convex ; 
 ornamented with regular, sub-equal, close, concentric lines, 
 rounded, slightly recurved, between 45 and 50 in number; 
 apex prominent, acute; lunule lanceolate; dorsal margin very 
 oblique, slightly sinuous ; posterior side slightly contracted ; 
 extremity much above the line of the base, and obtuse. 

Locality. — Virginia ? 

This elegant species is more elevated than A. concentrica^ 
 Con., and has more numerous and finer lines ; it differs from 
 A. bella, Con., in having rather larger lines, and in the hinge- 
 plate being much narrower, and the lunule much less exca- 
 vated. The genus is remarkably developed in the American 
 Miocene, 18 species having been described, whilst 4 species 
 only have been obtained from the Eocene, and there are but 
 3 recent species on the Atlantic coast, as far North as Massa- 
 chusetts ; and, except A. castanea, Say, they do not live South 
 of that State. There is a curious blending of tropical or sub- 
 tropical genera in the American Miocene, with forms which 
 are prevalent in Northern latitudes. Thus Gyprsea, (7o??w5and 
 Grassatella lived on the Virginia coast in company with many 
 species of Astarte, of which genus no species has been found 
 even in the Postpliocene of Virginia or Carolina. 

A. DiSTANS, Conrad. — PI. 4, fig. 14. 

Description. — Triangular, convex-depressed, with four broad, 
 concentric undulations; concentric lines unequal; umbo flat- 
 tened, with prominent, small, concentric ribs ; inner margin 
 minutely crenulated. 

A. distans, Conrad. — -Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1862, p. 
 288. 

Locality, — Shiloh, Cumberland Co., N. J. 
 A. Thomasii, Conrad.— pi. 4, fig. 16. 

Description. — Triangular, slightly ventricose ; ribs robust, 
 rounded, recurved ; concentric lines minute ; towards the pos- 
 terior end, the ribs become obsolete; posterior extremity sub- 
 truncated nearly direct ; summit prominent ; lunule large, 
 acutely ovate, deeply impressed ; inner margin crenulated. 

A. Thomasii, Conrad.— Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1855, 
 p. 267. 

Locality. — Near Mullica Hill, N. J. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 13 

CARDITID^.. 

CARDITAMERA, Conrad. 

C. ACULEATA, Conrad.- — PI. 4, fig. 5. 

Description. — -Trapezoidal, inequilateral; umbonal slope 
 ventricose; base emarginate in the middle; disk contracted 
 in the middle; ribs very large over the umbonal slope; an- 
 terior ribs crenulated ; the larger ribs and the dorsal sub-margin 
 with prominent scales. 

Locality. — Shiloh, Cumberland Co., N. J. 

I found one valve only, of this small and distinct species. 

MYTILIDiE. 
 LITHOPHAGA, Bolten. 
 L. SUBALVEATA, Conrad. — PI. 4, fig. 4. 

Description. — Oblong, very thin and fragile, ventricose, pos- 
 terior side produced, a slight wide furrow marks the umbonal 
 slope, on and behind which are concentric grooves and lines; 
 basal margin slightly emarginate or contracted. 

Locality. — Shiloh, Cumberland Co., N. J. 

A single specimen was found penetrating the shell of Ostrea 
 perorassa, Conrad. 

1i AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Reference to Plates Illustrating Mr. Conrad's 
 Papers. 

Plate 3. 

Fig. i. Nassa quadrata, Conrad. — P. 65. 
 " 2. VoLUTiFusus TYPUS, Conrad.— P. 67. 
 " 3. Nassa Marylandica, Conrad. — P. 65. 
 '•' 4. " INTEGRA, var. ovata, Conrad. — P. 6C 
 " 5. " " Conrad.— P. 66. 

'■ 6. Cancellaria perspectiva, Conrad. — P. 67. 
 " 7. BusYCON alveatum, Conrad. — P. 68. 
 " 8, " striatum, Conrad. — P. 69. 

" 9. Cancellaria biplicifera, Conrad. — P. 67. 
 " 10. Spisula capillaria, Conrad. — P. 71. 

Plate 4. 

Fig. 1. Mysia parilis, Conrad. — P. 71. 
 " 2. Tellinella capillifera, Conrad. — P. 71. ■ 
 " 3. Thracia MY.EF0RMIS, Conrad. — P. 70. 
 '' 4. Lithophaga subalveata, Conrad. — P. 73. 
 " 5. Carditamera aculeata, Conrad. — P. 73. 
 " 6. Saxicava parilis, Conrad. — P. 70. 
 " 7. Cancellaria alternata, Conrad. — P. 67. 
 " 8. " engonata, Conrad. — P. 68. 

" 9. Periploma (Anatina) papyratia, Saj. — P. 70. 
 " 10. " ALTA, Conrad.— p. 70. 

" 11. Tellina peracuta, Conrad. — P. 71. 
 " 12. TiFATA longidens, Conrad. — P. 69. 
 '• 13. Niso lineata, Conrad. — P. 69. 
 " 14. Astarte distans, Conrad. — P. 72. 
 " 15. Cancellaria plagiostoma, Conrad. — P. 68. 
 " 16. Astarte Thomasii, Conrad. — P. 72. 
 '• 17. Cancellaria scalarina, Conrad. — P. 68. 
 " 18. Astarte compsonema, Conrad. — P. 72. 
 " 19. Cypr^a annulifera, Conrad. — P. 69. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 15 

BOTE ON THE GENUS GADUS, WITH DESCRIPTIONS 

OF SOME NEW GENERA AND SPECIES OP 

AMERICAN FOSSIL SHELLS. 

BY T. A. CONBAD. 

DENTALIID^. 

GADUS, Montagu? Rang. 1829. 
 Helonyx, Stimpson, 1865. 

This genus is attributed to Montagu by Rang, but I can 
 iind no sucli genus in Montagu's Conchology. Deshayes 
 quotes it, Gadtis, 'Ro.ug. Dr. Stimpson remarks, that G.clava 
 ius, Gould, is the only living species; but O. gadus, Montagu 
 informs us, is a "pelagic species, found in many parts of the 
 British Channel, adhering to the log (lead) line ;" and a few- 
 others were obtained by Cuming in America seas. The genus 
 makes its first appearance in the Eocene of Europe and Amer- 
 ica. The American fossil species are:^ — D.pusiUum [Ditrupa?), 
 Gabb ; IJ. subcoarctata [Ditrupa), Grabh-^ and I), thallus, Con- 
 rad. There are three species in the Paris Eocene. 

ECPHORA, Conrad. 

There is one species only in America, and one in the Mio- 
 cene near Bordeaux, E. Janherti [Pyrula), Grateloup, very 
 closely allied to E. -i-costata, Say, but having three ribs, whilst 
 the latter has invariably four. There is a remarkable affinity 
 among a number of the Dax and Italian fossils with the Mio- 
 cene shells of North America ; for example, Cancellaria am- 
 pullacea^ Brocc, is allied to (■. hiplicifera, Con. ; Gyprxa annn- 
 laria, Brong., to G. annuUfera, Con. ; G. leporina, Gray, Lam., 
 to G. GaroUnensis, Con. ; the species of Trochita near Dax, er- 
 roneously referred to trochiformis, is allied to T. perarinata, 
 Con. Nerita carinnta, Brocchi (Italy), is a species of Garinor- 
 bis, Conrad, an American Miocene o-enus. 

t6 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

VELUTINID.E. 

LEPTONOTIS, Conrad. 
 Description. — Sub-oval or sub-rotund; apex distant from 
 tlie margin ; peristome continuing around the body of the vo- 
 lution to near the base of the columella. 

Velutina {Otina) expansa, Whitfield. — Amer. Journ. Conch.. 
 Vol. I., p. 265, pi. 27, figs. 14, 15. 

This genus differs from Velutina in the remarkable expan- 
 sion of the outer lip, and the distance of the apex from the 
 margin. It was probably unlike Velutina^ an inhabitant of 
 deep water. 

MACTKID^. 

CUMINGIA, Sowerby. 

C. BOREALis, Conrad. — Gould's Invert, of Mass., fig. 86. 

This shell has long been referred to the fossil G. tellinoides. 
 Con., but it is greatly inferior in size, and the height is less in 
 proportion to its length. It inhabits the coast of Massachu- 
 setts; South Carolina, on the authority of Dr. Eavenel. 

CORBULID^. 

CORBULA, Lam. 
 C. ALiFORMis, Conrad. 

Description. — Elongated, oblique, very inequilateral, with a 
 sinuous anterior margin ; hinge margin with a linear groove 
 posteriorly ; smaller valve unknown. 

0. alta, Conrad. — Journ. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 2d Series. 
 Vol. II., pi. 1, fig. 3, (not C. alia, 2d Series, Vol. I., pi. 12, 
 fig. 33.) 

This shell belongs exclusively to the Shell Bluff group, and 
 is very distinct from C. alta of the Vicksburg group. 

TELLINID^. 

MACOMA, Leach. 
 M. VIRGINIANA, Con. 

This species is extinct, and may be distinguished from M. 
 lusoria by being proportionally more elevated, rounded at base, 
 and less compressed and reflexed anteriorly. In "Fossil 
 Shells of the Tertiary Formations," this species is described 
 as T. lusoria, Say.* 

* Inhabits the coast of New Jersey. 

OF CONCHOLOQY. tt 

ANOMIIDaE. 
 DIPLOSCHIZA, Conrad. 

Description.— Shell bivalve, with a deeply notched or emar- 
 ginate hinge in both valves ; smaller valve concave ; struc- 
 ture laminated. 

D. CRETACEA, Conrad.* 

Bescrij^tion. — Short-ovate ; larger valve ventricose, with one 
 to three distant concentric undulations; umbo truncated; small- 
 er valve deeply concave ; cardinal notch carinated on both 
 sides. 

Dimensions. — -Length J inch. 

Locality. — Alabama. Cretaceous. Dr. Sho waiter. 

Observations. — This genus seems to approximate more nearlv 
 the families Anomiidse and Terebratulidse, bearing the same 
 relation to Anomia that Morrissia does to Terehratula. The 
 shell seems to have been attached by the umbo of the larger 
 valve, the truncature of which reminds us of the truncated 
 beak of Terehratula. 

TEREBRATULIDJa. 

TEREBRATULINA, D'Oibigny. 
 T. FiLOSA, Conrad.* 

Description. — Sub-orbicular, with numerous thread-like, 
 close, ramose, radiating lines. 

Locality. — Alabama, in rotten limestone (cretaceous). Dr. 
 Showalter. 

This species differs from T. gracilis, in having finer lines, 
 and in the wave of the basal margin, which is in the opposite 
 direction from that of T. gracilis. 

LACUNARIA, Conrad. 

Description. — Ovato-conoid or sub-globose, thin in substance, 
 with delicate, close, revolving lines ; aperture entire, rounded 
 or round-ovate, angulated posteriorly, margins disunited; col- 
 umella flattened, with a long groove descending from the um- 
 bilicus. 

L. Alabamiensis {Natica), Whitfield. — Amer. Journ. Conch.. 
 Vol. I., p. 265, pi. 27, figs. 9, 10. 

* To be figured in the next No. of this Journal. 

78 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

L. ERECTA {Natica}, Whitfield. — lb.; fig. 11. 

Deshayes figures a number of species of this Eocene genus 
 under the generic name of Lacuna. I believe the genus in- 
 habited deep water, unlike Lacuna, and probably terminated 
 its existence at the close of the Eocene period. Certainly it 
 is as yet unknown in a later formation. 
 CYCLOMERA, Conrad. 

I propose this name, in place of Ci/cloceras, given by me as 
 a subgenus of Baculites, Avhich name is pre-occupied. 

OP CONCHOLOGY, 

DESCRIPTIONS OP NEW SPECIES OF AUSTRALIAN 
 FKESH-WATER SHELLS. 

BY T, A, CONRAD, 

I published, in the "Proceedings of the Academy of Nat- 
 ural Sciences of Philadelphia," Vol. V., p. 10—11, Feb., 1850, 
 descriptions of several new species of fresh-water shells from 
 Australia. The Unios contained in that paper, were afterwards 
 more fully described by me in the "Journal of the Academy," 
 with lithographic figures; but the univalve shells have,until now, 
 remained unfigured. Finding that a number of new species 
 from the same country have been recently described in the 
 "Zoological Proceedings," London, I now re-publish mine, 
 with colored illustrations, in order to enable naturalists to 
 make more satisfactory comparisons. 

1. ViviPARA SUBLINEATA, Conrad. — 1. 1, f. 8. 

Description. — "Ventricose, oonoidal, sub-umbilicate ; volu- 
 tions 5, ventricose ; epidermis olive, polished, with minute obso- 
 lete revolving lines ; body whorl sub-carinated in the middle ; 
 aperture sub-oval. |, f ." 

Paludina suhliiieata, Conrad, — Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1850, 

p. 11. 
 Locality. — Darling River, Australia. 

Observations. — This species belongs to a very distinct group 
 of Viviparidse of exotic distribution, and which is represented 
 by V. melanostorna, Benson ; ^V. Ceylonica, Dohrn ; V. prie- 
 tiiorsa, Benson; V. amplior, Mousson; V. dissimilis, Miiller, 
 etc. 

It is very distinct from all of the above, and does not re- 
 semble the descriptions of any of the Australian Viviparidaj. 
 The revolving lines are closely arranged, but so minute as to 
 be invisible without a lens. 

80 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

2. Melania tetrica, Conrad. — t. 1, f. 9. 

Description. — -"Tarrited; volutions 9, with oblique angular 
 ribs, crossed by sharp, prominent lines, giving the ribs an 
 acutely tuberculated character; whorls of spire angulated 
 above the middle, and destitute of revolving lines above the 
 angle ; ribs on body whorl not continued to the middle of the 
 volution ; the revolving lines about 12 in number, 4 on the 
 penultimate volution ; aperture ovate-acute, slightly oblique. 
 I." 

Melania tetrica, Conrad. — Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1850, p. 11. 

Localitrj. — -Rivers of S. E. Australia. 

Observations. — May be compared with M. Aitstralis, Reeve, 
 which is not so high in the spire, with large ribs, which are 
 curved. Australis, moreover, comes from a distant locality- — ■ 
 the rivers of North Australia. 

3. Melania Balonnensis, Conrad. — t. 1. f. 10. 

Description. — "Ovate-elongate, thin, diaphanous; volutions 
 6, those of the spire angulated, obliquely ribbed ; revolving 
 lines distinct, but little prominent ; the ribs on body whorl 
 short ; aperture elliptical, nearly half the length of the shell ; 
 epidermis pale straw-color, with unequal spots of reddish- 
 brown, f." 

M. Balonnensis, Conrad. — 1. c, p. 11. 
 Locality. — Balonne River, Australia. 

Observations — Of much lighter texture than M. tetrica, also 
 lighter colored, and ribs not so strongly expressed. 

4. Amphipeplea perlevis, Conrad.— t. 1, f. 5. 

Description. — Ovate, thin and fragile, pellucid; volutions 5 ; 
 spire very short, the whorls convex ; body whorl slightly 
 flattened on the side, and also near the suture ; epidermis 
 straw-colored ; columella with a prominent, slender, very 
 oblique fold revolving within to the apex; aperture large, 
 patulous, ovate, regularly rounded at base." 

Lymnea perlevis, Conrad.— 1. c, p. 11. 

ZocaZ%.— Salamanca and Balonne Rivers, Australia. 

Observations. — Allied to A. Lessonii, but less ventricose, and 
 has flattened sides, while those of the former are convex. The 
 surface is coarsely undulated parallel with the growth-lines. 

OF OONCHOLOOY. 81 

5. Physa pectorosa, Conrad. — t. 1, f. (!. 

Description. — ■"Sub-ovate; volutions -i or 5; spire sliort, 
 apex eroded; penultimate whorl ventricose; columella witii 
 a prominent, compressed, triangular, oblique tooth or ftUd ; 
 epidermis olivaceous, clouded with brown, f, i.'" 

Ph. pectorosa^ Conrad. — 1. c, p. 11. 

Locality. — Bogan River, Australia. 

Observations. — This is a much inflated species, almost shoul- 
 dered above; columella with a double fold — a character which 
 I have not observed in any other species of the genus. 

6. Physa Australiana, Conrad.— t. 1, f. 7. 

Description. — "Elliptical, thin, diaphanous : volutions 4 or 
 5, regularly convex ; spire short ; epidermis araber-colorsd : 
 columella with a slender prominent fold, which revolves within 
 to the apex; margin of labrum regularlv curved or rounded. 

if-" 

Ph. Australiana, Conrad. — ^I. c, p. 11. 
 Locality. — -Bogan River, Australia. 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

NOTE ON MR. PEASE'S SPECIES OP POLYNESIAIST 
 PHANEROPNEMONA. 

BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 

When we received the MSS. of Mr. Pease's descriptions, 
 published in our last volume, we were not aware that we 
 would be able to illustrate them. Having since received types 
 of the species, we now give colored figures, and also the habi- 
 tats, omitted in the original descriptions. 

1. Realia ochrostoma. Pease. — t. 5, f. 1. 
 Sabitat. — Hervej Isles, 

2. Realia variabilis, Pease. — t. 5, f. 2. 
 Habitat. — Hervej Isles. 

3. Realia scalariformis, Pease. — t. 5, f. 3. 
 Habitat. — Oulan IsFd. 

4. Realia affinis, Pease. — t. 5, f. 4. 
 Habitat. — Hervey Isles. 

5. Realia l.^vis, Pease. — t. 5, f. 5. 
 Habitat.— OuIru Isl'd. 

6. Pupoidea scalariformis, Pease. — t. 5, f. 6. 
 Habitat. — Hervey Isles. 

7. Pterocyclos parva, Pease. — t. 5, f. 8. 
 Habitat. — Hervey Isles. 

8. Helicina Pacifica, Pease. — t. 5, f. 7. 
 Habitat. — Oulan Isl'd. 

OF CONCHOLOaY. 83 

ON THE MODERN CLASSIFICATION OE MOLLUSKS. 

BY 0. A. L. MORCH. 
 [From "Journal de Conchyliologie, October, 1865.] 

TRANSLATED BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 

In a Eeview of my Catalogue of the Lassen Collection, M. 
 Crosse has cited, as an example of the inferior value of the 
 lingual dentition, as a systematic character, the fact, that the 
 Hdicinse, according to this classification, are placed with a 
 much elongated group — the Cyclostom.re. These two families 
 have not, really, another character in common, than the posi- 
 tion of the eyes at the exterior base of the tentacles, a char- 
 acter partaken of by nearly all the tentaculated Gasteropods. 

The Helicinse are distinguished by the want of the profound 
 groove in the middle of the foot, and especially by the form 
 of the operculum, which, on the contrary, accords perfectly 
 with that of the Neritinse; nevertheless, they have not the 
 resemblance of the lateral processes. .The callosity of the 
 columella, as also the faculty of dissolving the internal walls 
 of the shell, are also characters whicli indicate resemblances 
 with the Neritinse. As well as ail finvatile, univalve or bi- 
 valve shells have certain common affinities, for example, a 
 thick and coriaceous epidermis, so have the Hel'cinse charac- 
 ters in common with other terrestrial MoUnsks, such as the Cy- 
 clostomse, and especially the Helices. 

It is M. Lov^n who first founded the modern classification 
 of Grasteropods, based on the lingual dentition. M. Troschel 
 has given names to several groups- established on this charac- 
 ter [Tsenioglossata, Rhipidoglossata, 'Toxoglossata, etc.); but he 
 has, at the same timfe, admitted others, based on the organs of 
 respiration [Pneumonopovia, Ctjclohranchia, etc.) My studies 
 of Mollusks during twenty years, have induced me to accord 
 a more elevated systematic value to the lingual dentition. 
 Certain exceptions can, of course, be cited, as well as tlic 

84 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Edentates and the Cetaceans among Mammals. For exam- 
 ple, jS^joUs and Voluta have not more than a single row of 
 teeth, whilst those of the groups the nearest approaching the 
 lirst genus have numerous rows, and those approximating to 
 the second have three rows; only the teeth which remain in 
 the above genera, resemble the correspond ng teeth in the 
 allied forms. 

Many genera are deprived of teeth, although the neighbor- 
 ing generic groups possess them (for example, Thetysfimhriata, 
 Doridopsis (Hancock), Stilifer, Leptoconchus) ; but it is possible 
 that these genera possess them in a young and larval state. 
 The genera Solarium and Terebra, which have been cited as 
 deprived of teeth, really possess them, a result of more exact 
 researches recently- undertaken. 

Series I.— MONOTOCARDIA. 

Heart bilocular, with only one auricle, copulation ejft'ected 
 between two individuals by means of the intromission of an 
 <:)rgan. 

Class. I. — Androgyna (Musioglossata, Morch, olim) 

Sexual organs united, always furnished with a receptaculum 
 seminis (petiolate bladder); male organ retractile. 

Tongue provided with multiserial teeth (except jEoUs and 
 the Pellibranchs) ; mouth with mandibles. (But this is not so 
 with the Agnatha.)* 

1. Pulmonata. — -P. terrestria, P. fluviatilia [Lymnvea, Pla- 

norbis^ etc.), P. marina (jSij^honaria.) 

2. Opisthohranchia. — (Gymnobranchs, Tectibranchs, Pelli- 

branchs.) 
 5. Pelagica. — (gymnosomous Pteropods.) 

Class II. — ExopnALLiA. 

Sexes separate ; male organ not retractile, sometimes con- 
 cealed in the branchial cavity, or with the tentaculum. Moutli 
 supplied by suction. 

I. Taeniogtossata. — Tongue with seven rows of sharp, curved 
 teeth. 
 A. Rostrifera. — Mouth at the extremity of a non-retractile 
 muzzle. 

Metamorphosis in the interior of the egg. 
 n. Terrestria. Gyclostomacca. ' 
 h. Fluviatilia. Paludina^ Ampnllitrid. 

* A group establinbcd l>y M. Morch ii> 1859, includii>g Tfistar.elhi, J>au.dn- 
 hardia, StreptaxU, etc. 

OF CONCHOLOQV. 85 

Metamorphosis out of the egg (larva, swirnmirig.) 

c. Marina. (Jerithium, Turritella. 

Metamorphosis within a sac. 

d. Parasitica. Vermetus, flalyptnea, Hipponyx. 

e. Pelagica. lltteropod t . 

B. Prohoscidifera. — Moutli at the extremity of a retractile 
 proboscis. Larva swimming. Natica, Cassis, JJoliuni, 
 Triton, Ranellt. — Proboscis not retractile, Cyprwa, 
 Stromhus. 

II. Rachiglossata. — Lingual teetli disposed in thi'je longitu- 

dinal rows, simph^ sharp, not curved, (^except Voluta, 
 which has but one row.) Mouth at the extremity of a 
 retractile proboscis. Eggs enclosed in corneous cap- 
 sules. [Melicertiqenes.) — Marginella, Vohita, Harpa, 
 Oliva, Nassa, Buccinum, Fasciolaria, Fusus, Mure.r. 
 TurbineUa, Purpura, Columhella, Mitra. 

III. Toxoglossata. — Lingual teeth subulate, Avith an external 

or internal veneniferous canal. Cancellaria, Terebra, 
 Clionella, Pleurotmna , Conue, 

Series IL— DIOCORDIA. 
 Heart triloculai", witli two auricles surrounding the rectum. 

Glass III.^-PSEUDOPHALLIA (ASPIDOBRANGHI A, Ohm.) 

Sexes separate, but without external male organ. The 
 question of copulation in this class, or the mere dispersion of 
 semen, as with the Acephala, is undetermined. The heart is 
 provided with two auricles, even with the genera which have 
 not more than a single branchia. (See "Voyage of the Jstro- 
 /aiie," Anatomy of Turbo marmoratus.) Development known 
 only in Chiton and DeMalium. 

I. RJii'pidoglossata. — Lingual teeth numerous, disposed in tw/) 
 orders, the marginal ones aciculate and turned into 
 hooks. 

a. Terrestria, Helicina. 
 h. Fluviatilia. Neritina. 
 c. Marina. Nerita. 

Trochoidea, {Haliotis.) 
 Fissurellidea. 

86 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

II. Heteroglossata. — Dentition more distinct by the failure of 
 the subulate marginal teeth. 

Cyclobranchia. Patella, Chiton. 
 Cirribranchia, DeniaMum. 

Class IV.— ACEPHALA. 

Sexes separate (except with Odrea and Pecten, which are 
 liermaphrodite.) Without copulation; fecundation by the dis- 
 persion of semen. The larvas are provided with two wings, 
 ommatophorous, and tentaculated, as the Gasteropods. The 
 metamorphosis is, therefore, retrograde {Lov^n.) 

1. Dimyaria. 

2. Heteromyaria, [Mytilacea^ 

3. Monomyaria. 

The Cephalopods do not differ more from the Gasteropods, 
 than the gymnosomous Pteropods. Their long arms corre- 
 spond to the prehensile collar of the Pneumoderms ; their short 
 arms, furnished with cups, are likewise recognized in the 
 Gyranosoms. Their funnel corresponds with the foot of the 
 Gasteropods, but their heart and their copulative organ are 
 not sufficiently known to permit us definitely to indicate their 
 place. 

The thecosomous Pteropods (Hyalcca, etc.) differ from the 
 gymnosomous Pteropods by their teeth, which are disposed in 
 three rows, and by their fins, which correspond to the cephalic 
 velum of the Olives, and not with the epipodium of the 
 Grymnosoms. According to the anatomy given by Souleyet, 
 in the " Voyage of the Bonite," these animals are undoubtedly 
 androgynous. I have, in the "Malakoz. Blatter," 1859, given 
 more extended notices of these subjects. The ancient groups 
 based on the form of the foot, correspond with those of Klein 
 for the Vertebrates: Apoda, Bipeda and Quadripeda (including 
 the Keptiles.)* 

* M. Cros&e proposes, in a fisture No. of the " Journal de Conchylio- 
 logie," to attack the system of classification indicated above. We will fur- 
 nish our readers with a translation of this paper also, as soon as we receive 
 it. We have already stated our opinion, that the dentition is of much less 
 value in classification than is generally accorded to it. 

OF CONCnOLOQY. 8T 

REPLY TO MR. CONRAD'S CRITICISM ON MR. GARB'S 

"REPORT ON THE PALEONTOLOGY OF 

CALIFORNIA." 

BY WILLIAM M. GABB. 

The criticisms of Mr. Conrad, in the "Journal of Conchol- 
 ogy " for October, on my paper on Cretaceous Fossils in the 
 "Geological Eeport of California," and the diametrically oppo- 
 site opinions held by that gentleman and myself, oblige me 
 reluctantly to vindicate my position. 

A reply is rendered the more necessary, from the fact, that 
 the criticism comes from one who is universally acknowledged 
 to be the highest authority on the Tertiary Formations in the 
 country, and who claims that I have described Tertiary fossils 
 as belonging to an older formation. 

It would be well to bear in mind the wide difference in the 
 facilities for studying the question in discussion, possessed by 
 Mr. Conrad and myself. A very extensive personal study of. 
 the rocks in place, extending over a space of upwards of 
 three years, assisted by suites of many- thousands of speci- 
 mens, is hardly to be compared with the examination of a 
 single boulder, even when aided by the carefully digested re- 
 sults of my work. 

I am free to admit, that, when I first saw the newer member 
 of the California Cretaceous, I pronounced it Eocene Tertiary, 
 without hesitation. Nay, more : after I had recognized un- 
 doubted Cretaceous forms in the rock, I still maintained, for 
 more than a year, that there was a mixture of Tertiary forms 
 in it, and it was only after a minute comparison of the doubt- 
 ful species with authentic specimens of Eastern Eocene fossils, 
 that I yielded reluctantly to the conviction, that the rock was 
 unequivocally Cretaceous. An instance of these close rela- 
 tions is found in the resemblance of Architectonica cognata with 
 one of its Eastern congeners. 

But, not to consume more of your valuable space, I shall 

88 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

reply to the separate items at once. Mr. Conrad says I have 
 "included the rock of Canada de las Uvas, which contains 
 Venericardia planicosta and Aturia zic-zac in the Cretaceous 
 series, but he has failed to show one Cretaceous fossil from that 
 rock, and adds: — "I do not perceive, from Mr. Gabb's Eeport, 
 that there is any mixture of Cretaceous and Eocene species in. 
 California." 

The first proposition I den}^ ; the second I admit, and shall 
 endeavour to prove that it is correct, though from a reason 
 exactl}^ the opposite of the one that Mr. Conrad gives. 

The following list will show the species found in common in 
 the two divisions of the California Cretaceous : — ■ 

(lallianassa Stimpsonii, Gabl), Chico Creek, Div. A. 

Clayton and Tejon, Div. B. 

Shasta Co., A. 

Clayton, B. 

Martinez, A. 

Clayton and Tejon, B. 

Martinez, A. 

Nautilus Tt.mnvs ? Shum., 
 Aturia Matlieivsonii, Gabb, 

Ammo nit es, n. s., 

Fusus Matheusonii, Gabb, 

Amauro'psis alveata, Con., sp. 

Dentalinm Cooperii, Gabb, 

T). stramineum^ Gabb, 

(hjlichna cosiata, Gabb, 

Mactra Ashhumerii, Gabb, 
 Avicula pellucida, Gabb, 

Clayton, B. 

Martinez and Mt. Diablo, A. 
 Clayton, B. 
 Mt. Diablo, A. 

San Diego, Martinez,Clayton, B. 
 Mt, Diablo and Siskiyon, A. 
 San Diego and Martinez, B. 
 Mt. Diablo, A. 
 San Diego and Martinez, B. 
 Almost every locality of both 
 Divisions. 

San Luis Gonzaga, A. 

Martinez, B. 
 ChicuUcea Afatheusonii, Gabb, Martinez, A. 

Clayton, B. 
 Nucula {Acila) trumata, Gahh, Pence's Eancho, Tuscan Sp'gs, 

San Luis Gonzaga, A. 

Martinez, B. 
 Leda protexta (.^). Gabb, Martinez, A. 

Nearly everywhere in B. 

The above list contains fourteen species, the identity of sev- 
 eral of which, in the two members of the formation, has been 
 called in question. 

But, granting that Mr. Conrad is correct in every in- 
 stance, there are enough still left to establish the fact, that 
 the two groups of rocks are members of one formation, and 
 not, as he supposes, one Cretaceous, the other Tertiary. 

OF CONCIIOLOGY. 89 

In the upper member are found the following Cephalapo- 
 dw:— 

Nautilus, apparently Texanus, Shum. The same species, 
 whether Texanus or not, is not rare in the older group, in the 
 ISTorthern part of the State, associated with over a dozen spe- 
 cies of Ammonites. 

Aturia Mathewsonii, G., claimed by Mr. Conrad as A-zic-zic. 
 or A. angustata, has been found at Tejon"'^ and Clayton in Di- 
 vision B ; but the specimen from which iny drawing was 
 taken, and by means of which Mr. Conrad recognizes a Ter- 
 tiary fossil, was found by Mr. Mathewson and myself in the 
 older member, associated with Turritella Safford'i, Venus va- 
 rians, Pugnellus hamulus, and other equally characteristic 
 species of that group ! 

Ammonites^ n. s., referred incorrectly to A. Newherryanus 
 (Report, pi. 10, fig. 5), also found abundantly at Martinez in 
 Division A. Several specimens were collected by myself, as- 
 sociated, in the same rock, and within a few feet of a specimen 
 of Cardita Hornii, G., {G.planicosta, var. regia of Conrad. 

? Ammonites Cooperii, G. One of the Ammonitidse, whether 
 an Ammonite or not, is from the presumed Eocene of Mr. Con- 
 rad, from San Diego, and the family is sufficient to establish 
 the age of that deposit, had we no other proof. 

Fusus Californicus, Con. sp. Mr. Conrad is mistaken in 
 supposing that my specimens do not come from his typical lo- 
 cality. His figure (Pacific R. R. Rep., Vol. V., pi. 2, fig. 11,) 
 is apparently taken from an internal cast, corresponding ex- 
 actly with many found at Clayton and Tejon, I have speci- 
 mens from both localities. There is no other shell, yet found 
 by myself or any of my friends, that will correspond with his 
 figure ; and, so far as his description goes, it agrees perfectly 
 with my species. I quote it at length: — "Fusiform; spire 
 conical, volutions rounded, somewhat flattened above; (it must 
 be remembered that this is in the cast) body whorl ventricose, 
 beak short and narrow." 

Volutilithes jSfavarroensis, Slium. As I understand the genus 
 Rostellites, Con., one important character is the existence of a 
 large number of small folds on the columellar lip. Our spe- 
 cies has but three. It cannot hQ the same as R. Texanus, Con., 
 which, as figured by Mr. Conrad, has at least eight folds ; and 
 the character of the spire is sufficiently different to separate it. 

* I might here remark, that I use the local name " Tejon " to designate 
 a stretch of country about four or five miles long, including the north end 
 of the Canada or " Cajon " de las Uvas and Alizos Creek, containing a 
 continuous deposit of the rocks in question. It was from this place tJiat 
 Mr. Conrad obtained the boulder, containing the originals of his paper in 
 the "Pacific Railroad Report." 

90 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Fusus Remondii, F. Hornii and F. Cooperii are all members 
 of the subgenus Hemifusus, none of them resembling Perisso- 
 lax, the first least so of all. Mr. Conrad does not appear to 
 understand the generic character of Perissolax. I founded 
 the genus in 1861, to receive a division of the genus Fusus 
 having a form almost like Tudicla or Haustellum ; that is to 
 say, with a very low spire; short, thick set body whorl, and 
 a long, narrow canal. I mentioned, as types of the genus, F. 
 h/ngirostris^ D'Orb., and F. frivolous, Gabb, and remarked, that 
 the genus seemed to be peculiar to the Cretaceous. Mr. 
 Conrad appears to misunderstand the peculiar characters of 
 tlie genus, and to apply the name to a totally different 
 group of shells; ignoring my two types, both of which are 
 Cretaceous species, and saying: "This genus is peculiar to the 
 Eocene formation." 

Perissolax hrevirosfris, G. Subsequent study has confirmed 
 me in the opinion that this shell was correctly placed under 
 the genus Perissolax, although its unusually short canal caused 
 me to hesitate at first. It is probably an extreme form. 

Naticina ohliqua and Turrildla Uvasana. Said by Mr. Con- 
 rad to be Eocene species. Both of these shells have been 
 found by Mr. Rcmond and myself in strata containing Am- 
 monites and BacvJites, and abounding in other Cretaceous forms. 

Amauropsis alveata, Gabb. Cal. Eeport. 

Natica alveata, Con. Pacific E. E. Eeport. Mr. Conrad 
 says: "Is a species of Glohularia, and occurs, I think, in the 
 Older Eocene Limestone of South Carolina, or a species very 
 near to it." In his original description of the species, he re- 
 marks: "There is no analogous species in the Eocene of the 
 Atlantic slope." He says 1 have figured two speci(;s, because 
 I illustrate two diverse forms. Being limited in space. I only 
 figured the extreme varieties. The angle of the upper por- 
 tion of the whorl varies from one form to the other, and the 
 striation of the surface is equally inconstant. Hardly two 
 specimens are exactly alike. The majority of the specimens 
 show revolving lines on at least a part of the surface; those 
 from San Diego being the only ones on which I was unable 
 to detect lines on some portion, and only a single specimen, 
 one from Curry's, south of Mt. Diablo, showed the whole sur- 
 face strongly striate. This variation is not dependent on the 
 geological horizon, as Mr. Conrad represents me as saying. 1 
 made no such remark as he quotes. 

OF CONCIIOLOGY. 01 

Chemnitzia SpiUmanni. Mr. Conrad is, possibly, correct in 
 separating tins shell from his species. I was obliged to trust 
 almost entirely to my memory, the description being too short 
 and imsatisflictory to assist me. In the description there is 
 no reference to the under side of the whorls; and the differ- 
 ence in the apical angle, between specimens so widely different 
 in age, and, consequently, in size, would not, of itself, be oi 
 specific value, unless united with other characters. 

CarcUta Ilornii. I have already, in my lieport, explained 
 the apparently unaccountable mistake into which Mr. Conrad 
 has fallen, with reference to this species. I do not see that 
 there is any thing to add. 

JJosinia elevata is not a Dosiniopsis, but a true Dosinia; so 
 that, despite its external resemblance to D. MteJcii, it is still 
 distinct. 

Meretrix Uvasana, Con., [Dusini'i, per Err. Jour. Conch.), 
 and Ficus mamillatus, Gabb. Unfortunately, my copy of 
 Conrad's Tert. Foss. is at present inaccessible. I can, conse- 
 quently, express no opinion on these two species; though, if 
 the first is the same as Dione ovata, Rogers, the error is Mr. 
 Conrad's, not mine. 

Meelda sella, Gr. If Mr. Conrad had taken the pains to have 
 read the generic description, he would have seen at once that 
 this shell, so far from being a Cyprina, could not even belong 
 to that family. From a long acquaintance with Mr. Conrad, I 
 am convinced that he would not wilfully misrepresent facts, 
 and, consequently, am the more surprised at the extreme care- 
 lessness exhibited by his note on this species. 

Further, he calls it Eocene. Granting that my Division B 
 should prove Eocene, the species would not assist the proof, 
 since, of the three known species of the genus, every specimen 
 yet found has come from the rock which Mr. Conrad says is 
 "doubtless Cretaceous." 

M. navis, G., "is a species of Yoldiay It has the external 
 form of Yoldia, but, nevertheless, has the hinge, and, in a 
 faint degree, the posterior thickening of Meelia. 

Mactra Ashhurnerii, G., is a variable species, Mr. Conrad 
 says I have confounded two species, and adds: "One he de- 
 scribes as having 'regular, nearly uniform, rounded, concen- 
 tric ribs,' and another as liaving only fine lines of growth." 
 In my description (p. 153, Cal. liep.) I say: "Surface varia- 
 ble; specimens from some localities showing a large number 
 of regular, nearly uniform, rounded, concentric ribs; while 
 those found at other places liave these ribs few^ enUrely absent, 

92 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

or only represented by fine lines of growth^ I might add, that 
 these variations occur entirely without reference to the two 
 geological horizons. 

Nucula tnincata. Mr. Conrad, starting Avith the theory that 
 I have united two formations, when he finds a species quoted 
 as occurring in both deposits, coolly disposes of it by saying: 
 " Two species are evidently confounded under this name." 
 How, "evidently,''^ I cannot understand. Certainly, I, with a 
 hundred specimens before me, should have better means of 
 knowing, than my critic, who has never seen so much as a 
 single specimen, and only one drawing. 

Leda protextri. The remarks made on the preceding species 
 will apply with equal propriety to this. There is but one 
 species in California included under this name, though I was 
 not quite sure of the correctness of my reference. 

" The remarkable and very characteristic fossil, RadioUtes 
 fjregaria {Tamiosoma gregaria, Con., Olim.), abundant in Cali- 
 fornia, has been omitted by Mr. Gabb in his report," because 
 neither Mr. Gabb nor any other member of the Geological 
 Survey ever found even a fragment of the species among the 
 tons of fossils collected by those gentlemen. It is even doubt- 
 ful whether the species may not be extra-limited, and whether 
 Mr. Conrad may not have been misinformed regarding its 
 locality. 

In conclusion, permit me to repeat, that I regret exceed- 
 ingly having been forced into this discussion, though I trust 
 that I have answered the objections of my critic in such a 
 manner as to convince him that he was mistaken in his views 
 in regard to the geological age of my Division B of the Cali- 
 fo]-nia Cretaceous Rocks. 

San Francisco, Cal., Nov. 14, 1865. 

OF coNctioi.oav. 

93 

i&MU, 

REVIEWS 

L— AMERICAN, 

Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 
 phia. July— August, 1865. 

Descriptions of New Sj^ecies of Fossils, from the Marshall 
 Group of Blichigan, and its supposed equivalent in other 
 States ; with Notes on some Fossils of the same ac/e pre- 
 viously described, by prof. Alexander wincuell. 

The following are the new 

Discina Gallaheri. 
 Froducta gracilis. 

" duplicostata. 
 " 3Iorbiliana. 
 curtiroslra. 
 " dolorosa. 
 Oi til is Jiava. 
 Spirigera Misso urie n sis. 
 hiloba. 
 '' Ohiensis. 

Spirifera centronala. 

Sillana. 
 Spiriferina Clarksvillensls. 

bina,cuta, 
 Ith ynchonella let rap. It/.r. 
 lieleropsis. 
 " persinucta. 

species described: — 

Rhynchonella unica. 

" ( Retzia?) micropleura. 
 Centronella Alfei. 
 Ostrea patercula. 
 Pterinea spinalata. 
 Fernopecten, iiov. gen. 

limatus. 
 Finna ? Marshallensis. 
 Myalina Lowensis. 
 Sangainolites strigatus. 
 Sanyuinolaria rostrata. 
 Conularia Newberryi. 
 Bellerophon Whittleseyi. 
 Met Optoma undata 
 Pleurotomaria quinque sulcata. 
 ( '// r'orrras Rockforde n se. 

94 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

II.— FOREIGN. 

FRENCH. 

Journal de Conchyliologie. V., No. 4. Paris. H. Crosse, 25 Rue 

Troiicbet. October, 1865. 

Note aur V Helix consfricia, et sur sa dislrihulion giographique 
 en France et en Ei-pagne. by ii. crosse. 

Quelqties viots sur un arrangement des 3Iollusqites pulmones 
 terredres (Geophiles^Fer.) base sur le i^ydeme nature!. 
 (Continued.) by o. a. l. morch. 

In the present paper, we have a long list of species, which 
 have been anatomically studied, arranged in accordance with 
 the author's views of their natural classification. 

Sur la Classification moderne des MoUusques. by o. a. l. 

MORCH. 

This paper we have translated, and publish in this Number. 

Note mr cette question: La Tellina halthica, Linne, appar- 
 tient-elle au genre Telline ? by c. recluz. 

Descriptions de deux especes nouvelles de Pupinacea, avec 
 des observations sur cette tribu. by o. sempkk. 

Eegistoma ambiguum, Ins. Luzon. 
 Fupina difficilU, Ins. Palaos. 

Description dhine TurbineUe nouvelle et observations sur le 
 genre Lalirus. by h. crosse. 

Tarbinella Hidalgoi, Crosse. 

Description de trois especes nouvelles du genre Fartula. by 

O. SEMPER. 

P. LeucotJioe, Ins. Palaos. 
 P. Calypso, 
 P. Thetis, 

Description d' especes nouvelles d'Audralie, provenont de la 
 collection de M. Geo. French Angas. by h. crosse and 

p. FISCHER. 

Pleurotoma (3Iavgelia) Vincentina. Macfra pingnis. 

" {Clathurella) Lallemanliana. Periploma Angasi. 

" *' Letourneuxiana. Mesodesma tbtusa. 

Mactra amygdala. 

Description dhme espece nouvelle. by j. gonzales hidalgo. 

Castalia Grosseana. 

Addition a la note de M. le Professeur A. Mousson sur la 
 Faune Malacologique terrestre et Jlnvialile des Archipels 
 Viti et tanv a. by h. crosse. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 95 

Description de deux ei<peces Fossiles appartenant aux genres 
 Scagliola et Microatelma. by o. semper. 

Scagliola Mohrensterni, Inferior Oligocene, Latdorf. 

31ic7'ostelma Bellardii, Subappinine, Asti. 

Notice sur une esj^ece du genre Limopsis. by o. semper. 

Limopsis Brocchii, Subappenine, Mt. Biancano, near Bologne. 

Bihliogrophie. 

Anna! es des Sciences Naturelles: Zoologie. IV. Paris, AuEjust, 
 I860. 

Recherches sur la Famille des Tridacnides. BY DR. LEON 
 VAILLANT. 

An extended anatomical memoir, prefaced bj a history of 
 the family. The paper is not yet completed, and we may, at 
 a future period, refer to it more fully. 

9fi AMERICAN JOURNAL 

SCIENTIFIC INTELLIGENCE. 

Exploratio:n'S. — Dr. H. Berendt, a well-known collector, 
 has just departed for Honduras and Guatemala, intending to 
 explore those interesting regions, principally for terrestrial 
 and fluviatile Mollusks. The principal localities to be exam- 
 ined are : the Belize River from its month to its source, and 
 the plateau and lakes in the Province of Peten, Guatemala. 

The cost of the expedition is defrayed principally by a few 
 of our Conchologists. 

Our Readers will be concerned to learn that Mr. John G. 
 Anthony, attached, as Malacologist, to the Scientific Explora- 
 tion of Brazil by Prof Agassiz, has been compelled to return 
 to Cambridge, in consequence of severe illness, which attacked 
 him shortly after the arrival of ihe party in Rio Janeiro. 

CONCHOLOGICAL MuSEUMS IN THE UNITED STATES.— We 

omitted to include in our List of the principal American Col- 
 lections, published in our last Number, that of 

William A. Haines, New York; 12,000 species. 

We have also to add the splendid collection of terrestrial and 
 liuviatile Mollusca possessed by 

John H. Thomson, New Bedford, Mass.; over 6000 species. 

Mr. Thomson informs ns, that there are nearly fifty private 
 collections, numbering 1000 species and upwards each, in the 
 city of New Bedford. 

Helix sculptilis, Pease, is pre-occupied by Mr, Bla':d for 
 an American species. , 

American. Jonrmil of I'oiichoLui}:- IS6(i, 

Flat.' 7. 

4^ 

4 

I 

y 

# 

^, 

4 

T^.lZ3.HdiixI3xJwe>wwNewcomb. M^l Pliysa, AuLstral.Miu: .(■;,,■. 
 ■" 4 Pianorbis hixarinutits.Say. » 8 Paludina suhUmMta. " 
 " 5 Lyntnxu^a perleiis.Canr '> 9 MdMnia. tetrica, » 

■' GPItysw jjectm-osa.. „ - „ ^ „ Boaanneiwis >• 

■ E. J NOLAN. 

80<vlN8c CO. UTH PHILA. 

^bnenlcan JmirnaJ. of r<jne}wloq)'- IS66. 

« 

PZ^A? 2. 

f 

♦ 4 ♦ 

" 

# 

12 

ii 

((iJ? c:t. ^(^ 

" i^.J-'Le.urocera hir;r>,-4^,-^, .. a t i n ■ 

■' ^ Jsrdom xiauiesii 

Eiaycaelon lyecuz . „ 

Goraobaeis imdulata^. >, 

Fhysa, conifhrnti^. ,, 

oLeaxiecL. „ 

y- l^J^ipcLra. supni/bsciMia.. „ 
 ariAYtN m £.j.nolan. 

" ^Oj^^T^gd, cbcutispa-a,. 

" maj^mmrhis Esperanjw-ngU 

•' T^SPlMnorhidaJBerendtiv. 

" r71,ynmxLen. WAsonH. 

" J^Jiissoo^ exiUg. 

BOWCNtCOUTH PHIU. 

/o 

c^- 

Am erican Jdurn/d ol' ('vnvholinjv^^ 1866 

FUU 3 

f 

^# 

^^ 


/ 

.■^ 

Aiiin-inui Jcuniol of Coiu-lwlvnv ^ ll^tUf 


V v--^ 

^pS^iSf'^ 

^ 

^*^ii^'' 



'f 

:^' 

i 

Ameriroji Jawnnl of Coticholvijy- IS66. 

L\ 

Flafe 5. 

4 4-1 

-:?. 
 ^ 

4 

i 4 

Fig 1. R^alioj ockrostonuL Fca»(^. Fig 5. Td'oUjO, La^vis Pease j 

" 2. tariabilL", " " 6. Hipcrideox .fcalariforirde. ' 

•' 5. " acnlariforndi', " ->' l.BiiUx'inuXj I'ojcifvcu; ' 

•' 4. ■' irtfuiif!, " " 8. Pte-rocycios jxtrxn, > 

PROSPECTUS OF SECOND VOLUME 

OF THE 

AMERICAN JOURNAL OF CONCHOLOGY. 

Upon tlie coinmeucement of our enterprise of establishing a 
 periodical, exclusively devoted to the advancement of the interests 
 of Malacological Science in the United States we did not disguise 
 from ourselves the many difficulties which would probably retard 
 or interfere with a successful result. Although we now find that 
 our apprehensions were by no means ill-founded, and we are free 
 to confess that a fore-knowledge of the various discouragements 
 which have beset us, including a heavy pecuniary loss in its pub- 
 licaticni, would have prevented the inauguration of the Journal; 
 we have found, on the other hand, much encouragement in the 
 ready sympathy and advice of a number of gentlemen, who have 
 willingly sacrificed much of their valuable time in promoting its 
 interests. 

Considering that the restoration of Peace will enable us to ex- 
 tend its sphere of usefulness, we enter upon a Second Volume, 
 ti'usting that what we have been able to accomplish in the firsts 
 amid all the difficulties surrounding a new undertaking, will pro- 
 cure for us many new subscribers, besides the continuance of the 
 very select few who are already thus enrolled. 

We propose to publish the new volume in the same style as the 
 one now completed, fui-nishing colored figures of every species 
 described in its pages. The number of plates will be limited only 
 by the number of species to be illustrated. 

Ninety-six pages as heretofore, will constitute a Quarterly Part; 
 but when sufficient material is offered, the size will be increased. 

The series of Portraits of distinguished Conchologists having 
 proved a popular feature, will be continued for the coming year. 

We also propose to continue the extended Reviews of Concho- 
 logical publications and lists of new species described, enabling our 
 readers to ascertain, immediately, whether any new work contains 
 species of genera or families in which they are interested. 

A new feature will be the re-publication from the foreign peri- 
 odicals, of the descriptions of all new American species. 

The subscription price will remain as before, $10 per annum ; 
 a recuction in price would scarcely secure to us an equivalent in- 
 crease of subscribers, whilst it would, perhaps, restrict our efforts 
 to improve the Journal in size and in illustration. 

GEORGE W. TRYON, Jr., 

625 Market Street, Philadelphia, 

Pennsylvania, (United States.) 

c o isr T K N T s 

PAGE. 

1. Description of a New American Species of Helix. By Wes- 

ley Newcomb, JI. D 1 

2. On an Abnormal Specimen of Planorbis bicarinatus. By 

George W. Tryou, Jr 3 

.'i. Descriptions of New Fresh- Water Shells of the United 

States. By George W, Tryon, Jr 4 

4. Descriptions of New Exotic Fresh- Water Mollusea. By 

George W. Tryou, Jr 8 

5. Description of a New Species of Rissoa. By George W. Try- 

on, Jr 12 

0. Addition to "Catalogue of Helices Inhabiting the West Coast 
 of North America, North of Cape St. Lucas." By Wesley 
 N-wcomb, M.D 13 

7. Monograph of the Family Strepomatidse. (Continued.) By 

George W. Tryon, Jr 14 

8. Note on Helix rufa, DeKay. By E. Michener, M. D 53 

!). Remarks on the Origin and Distribution of the Operculated 

Land Shells which inhabit the Continent of America and 
 the West Indies, with a Catalogue of the American Spe- 
 cies. By Thomas Bland 54 

10. Note on the Internal Structure of Megaspira. By Thomas 

Bland 64 

11. Illustrations of Miocene Fossils, with Descriptions of New 

Species. By T. A. Conrad 65 

12. Note on the Genus Gadus, with Descriptions of some New 

Genera and Species of American Fossil Shells, By T. A. 
 Conrad 75 

13. Descriptions of New Species of Australian Fresh -Water 

Shells. ByT. A. Conrad 79 

14. Note on Mr, Pease's Species of Polynesian Phaneropneu- 

mona. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr 82 

1."). On the Modern Classification of MoUusks. By O. A. L. Morch. 83 
 16. Reply to Mr. Conrad's Criticism on Mr, Gabb's '-Report on 

the Paieentology of California.' By Wm. M. Gabb 87 

EDITOFl'S TABLE. 
 Reviews : 1)3 

Aiia'ririoi. — Proceedhigs of the Academy of .Natural Sciences. 

F'lrcifjn. — Journal de Conchyliologie, ttc. 
 Scientific Intelligence 96 

NOTICE TO CONTRIBUTORS. 

Authors can obtain EXTRA COPIES of their contributions, on the 
 following terms : 

FoK Each Foum of 16 vv., or Less Number. 25 copies, |3.00; 50 copies, 
 .$5 00 ; 100 copies, $9.00 ; 250 copies, $15.00 ; cost of any alterations in paging, 
 &c., together with plates, if any, will be charged in addition. 

Papers and Works for Review, should be directed to the 
 " Editor of the American Journal of Conchologj, 625 Market St., 
 Philadelphia," and sent to either of the Agents for the Magazine, 
 or b\^ mail. 

m- 

p^; Published Quarterly, at $3 per No., or $10 per Annum. ^6 

Vol. ^. JPart S. 

AMERICAN 

JOXJRISrAL 

COIN CHOLOO^Y. 

..^IDril 1, 18S6. 

EDITED BY 
 C^EOR.OE ^W^. TK.YOTV, Jr., 

Member of the Ajademy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia ; Corresponding Member of the Boston 

Society of Natural History, the New York Lyoeum.of Natural History, 

the California Academy of Natural Sciences, &c. 

PHILADELPHIA : 

George W. Tkyon, Ju., 625 Market Street. 
 nuw york : boston : 

BAiLi.tEKK Bkothers, No. o20 Bruiidway. Little, Brown & Co. 

LONDON: 
 TaUBXER & Co , No. 60 Paternoster Row. 

MADRID: 
 C. Bailly-Bailliere, Calle del Principe. 
 BERLIN: 
 AsHEE <t- Co., No. 20 Uater d. Linden. 

Ykakel & Bno., Priuters, 23 X. SL\th St. 

I 

'4m-— r 

mEm WATEB sjciiL.L.a wmiwM. 

CoNCHOLOGiSTSor Dealers having FEESH WATER SHELLS 
 from any part of the world, for sale or exchange, will please for- 
 ward Catalogues of species and prices, to 

CHARLES M. WHEATLEY, 

Jan. 1865, (1y; Phoenixville, Pennsylvania. 

625 IVf^RKET STREET, 

PHILADEPHIA, U. S. 

E2C a «: A. isr C3- E 3 

I oft. 
 piiblica 
 also m} 
 jects or 

I des 
 quest g( 
 with pr 

My SI 
 dispose 
 very lo\ 
 the Uni 

I can 
 Land 

Clans 

Helix. 
 Marin 

J-y^ 

f ihrara of tfec Sascttm 

OF 

COMPARATIVE ZOOLOGY, 

AT HARVARD COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, MASS. 
 j^ounticT) bv ptftate subscription, fn 1861. 

Deposited by Louis Agassiz. 

my 
 ,nd 
 ib- 

re- 
 les 

of Shells, for the privilege of retaining, (it 

-Shells 

NAMING o. ^^■.. .^. . .-..>.. .0 NAHK coiiectio: 

exchange,) Shells that prove to be new to my Cabinet. 

CONCHOLOGICAL WORKS FOR SALE.— See list on second and third pages of cover of Ameri- 
 can Journal of ConchologT for October, «65. 

DIRECTIONS FOtt SHIPPING.— Gentlemen residing in Europe are requested to direct to me as 
 above, with the addition: — 

" In care of the Smithsonian Institution, 
 Washington, D. C," 
 and forward their packages to either of the following booksellers : — G. Bossange & Co., Paris. Dr. 
 Felix Flugel, Leipzig, Saxony. Wm. Wesley, 2 Queen's Head Passage, Paternoster Row, London. 

American correspondents can forward heavy packages by express or rail. Light packages can be 
 forwarded by mail. 

AMERICAN JOURNAL OF CONCHOLOGY. 

VOL. I.-1865. 

Containing 400 pages, illustrated by 31 colored and plain plates; with papers by Conrad, Anthony, 
 Bland, Wheatley, Binney, Newcomhi, Haldemaa, Stimpson, etc. Price in numbers, .$12. Or each 
 number separately, $'J.6(). A few copies, beautifully bound in red morrocco, gilt, bevelled sides, red 
 edges, at $\o. 

Notice. — To those who subscribe to Vol. II., the First Volume will be furnished at $10, or bound as 
 above, at $12. 

A:/u,LOu((u.< 

9 

|-V<.liiMnn.lo.jra|.lilnillH-.\l 

.l(,r Coiirln.loi.'V. U!(;g 

^M:ERICAlSr 

JOURNAL OF CONCHOLOGY. 

Vol. II. APRIL 1, 1866. No. 2. 

FURTHER OBSERVATIONS ON MR. GABB' 
 PALEONTOLOGY OF CALIFORNIA. 

BY T. A. CONRAD. 

In my observations on some species in Mr. Gabb's " Pa- 
 leeontology of California," I did not intend' to disparage Mr. 
 Gabb's labors; for the work is generally accurate, the plates 
 excellent, and the whole highly creditable to the State of Cali- 
 fornia and to Mr. Gabb. I only intended to call attention to 
 the stratigraphical relations of the upper member of Mr. 
 Gabb's Cretaceous formation, and to suggest that it might be 
 Eocene, as I thought I detected Eocene species in his Division 
 B: especially as he has referred only one exclusively Creta- 
 ceous genus to that division. Of whatever age Division B 
 may eventually prove, whether Cretaceous or Eocene, I am 
 certain that the fossils which I described in the Pacific Rail- 
 road Reports are from an Eocene boulder. 

The only mode of conveying an idea of the stratigraphical 
 position of Division B, is by a geological description, which 
 I presume, will be published in Professor Whitney's Report.. 
 Are the strata distorted or inclined ? or, are they in the form 

97 

98 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

of Breccia? In a country which has always been subjected 
 to volcanic disturbances, we should naturally look for the oc- 
 currence of some rock, like that of Wilmington, N. C, which 
 holds Eocene and Cretaceous species in common, and which is 
 of so uniform a character as to have deceived Professor Tuomey, 
 who imagined the Tertiary and Secondary species to have 
 lived in the same period.* Being a Breccia, the rock must have 
 been formed in the Eocene Period, and the exceptional char- 
 acter of its fauna is easily explained. Deshayes remarks of 
 the supposed intermixture of Cretaceous and Eocene fossils 
 in a transition formation in the Alps, "Leur melange a pu etre 
 le resultat de la degradation d'une couche marneuse fossillif^re 
 dans de la mer tertiare au moment de ses premiers depots." 
 Now, if Mr. Gabb really finds all his species which I consider 
 Eocene, in Division B, in company with Hamites and other 
 exclusively Cretaceous genera, how is it that, in his "Palaeon- 
 tology of California," he describes 13 Ammonites, 1 Belemnite, 
 1 Hamite, 3 Helicoceras^ 1 Turrilite, 1 Ptycoceras, 2 Crioceras, 
 1 Ancyloceras^ 2 Baculites ; not one of which is said to have 
 been taken from Division B, and only one Cretaceous genus 
 referred to that Division, — Aporrhais angulata {Anclmra, Con- 
 rad)? This, he says, occurs "in a single stratum of greenish- 
 gray limestone," so that its position in Division B is doubtful. 

With regard to the genus Atiiria^ it has not been found in 
 Europe, nor in America, east of the Rocky Mountains, nor in 
 Oregon, lower than the Older Eocene. Edwards says: "This 
 genus appears to be confined to the Tertiary, and is widely 
 diffused." 

Dosiniopsis aUa does not agree with Mr. Gabb's figure, the 
 posterior side being much shorter and more obtuse, and I be- 
 lieve it to be a difierent species. In Mr. Gabb's shell, the ex- 
 ternal character is so very close to Dosiniopsis Metldi^ that the 
 only difference is a more abrupt and sub-angular curve to the 
 anterior margin from the apex. Mr. Gabb says that his shell 
 is a true Dosinia; but he must publish a figure of the hinge 
 before he can substantiate the reference. The genus Dosinia 
 originated in the Miocene Period ; at least, it is yet unknown 
 in the Eocene, or in the Oligocene of America, and perhaps 
 of Europe. The form which closely resembles it externally, 
 is Dosiniopsis of the Older Eocene (Cyprinoid Cytherese of 
 Deshayes). 

In the beautiful illustrations to Dr. Karl Zittel's "Bivalves 
 der Gosaugebilde," the genus Cyprimeria is represented in 
 pi. 3, fig. 7, under the head of CVrce, and in pi. 4, fig. 1, as 

* The Lower Eocene beds of Jamaica contain masses of Cretaceous 
 limestone, and it may be that the California Lower Eocene strata contain 
 similar masses. 

OF CONCIIOLOGY. 99 

Circe; fig. 3 as Dosinia, and fig. 4 as Gyclina. He also figures 
 5 species of Venilia, Morton, under tlie heads of Cypricardia, 
 Gyprina, and Isocardm. Girce, Dosinia and Gyclina did not 
 exist before the Miocene Period. In order to form a 
 more natural system from new comparisons of the natural 
 ajQ&nities of families and genera, an extensive revision of 
 fossil groups will have to be undertaken to rescue them 
 from the highly artificial classification which yet obtains, the 
 sanction of authority. Analogy only, however, can be brought 
 to bear on organic remains, but this of itself can enable us 
 to approximate a more natural arrangement than at present 
 exists. I believe that many genera perished with the Creta- 
 ceous fauna, which are yet credited with Tertiary and existing 
 species. For instance, the genus Venericardia is supposed by 
 D'Orbigny to be represented by a few species in the Creta- 
 ceous period; but a glance at his figures is sufficient to show 
 them to be distinct. I believe the genus Venericardia came 
 in, for the first time, with the Eocene fauna, and in vast abund- 
 ance.* 

The genus Meeh'a, Gabb, I accept as a natural group of the 
 family Gyprinidse, and his Meekia sella as distinct from the 
 Oregon Gyprina bisecta (Eocene.) The hinge of the latter I 
 have not seen ; but, as the shell is said to have a palleal line 
 without a sinus, I presume the genus to be either Gyprina^ or 
 one nearly related to it. 

VOLUTID^. 

YoLUTiLiTHES Navarhoensis has the external sculpture 
 and form of a species o^ Eostdlites^onvLd in New Jersey, which 
 I have supposed to be identical with R. Texana. The number 
 of folds may prove it distinct from the Texas species, but I 
 have no specimen for comparison, and I believe the number 
 of columellar folds varies in the same species. 

Fasciolaria elongata, Sowerby, is an European species, 
 very similar in sculpture to tiie American species, as repre- 
 sented in Mr. Gabb's figure of his V. Navarroensis. This 
 genus is limited to the Cretaceous era. 

SYCOTOPYD^. 

Perissolax, Gabb, is limited to the one species, but it is 
 very different from Busycon Blakeyi, Conrad. That species 
 is nearly related to Levifusus traheatus, Conrad, of the Clai- 
 borne (Alabama) locality .f 

*The shells described hy Dr. Zittel, under the names of Cardita Reynesi 
 and G. granigera, are species congeneric with D'Orbiguy's Cretaceous 
 Carditm. 

t Perissolax brevirostris represents another genus. 

100 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Hemifcsus Hornii, H. Cooperii and H. Eemondii, Gabb, 
 and Ficus mamillatus, Gabb are members of my proposed 
 genus Ficopsis, of the family Sycotopydae, though the two 
 former species are aberrant, and may be regarded as a sub- 
 genus, or even a distinct genus of Sycotopydse* Hemifusus, 
 I believe, has never been found in a fossil state. 

NATICID^. 

Amauropsis alveata, Gabb, is a member of Lamarck's 
 genus, Ampullina, {Globulus, Sow.; Olohularia, Swains.) It 
 it quite distinct from the shell figured by Mr. Gabb as the 
 same in Division A. My species was published in 1856, and 
 it is only withina year, I worked out from a piece of limestone, 
 the first specimen of this genus known in the Eastern Eocene. 
 Ampullina, like Natica and Lunatia, never has revolving 
 lines. A. alveata, Con., has a shorter aperture than Mr. Gabb's 
 species, and a broadly refiexed pillar lip. 

ASTARTID^. 

Venericardia Hornii, Gabb, is a very different variety 
 (or species?) from the V. planicosta as figured in the Pacific 
 Railroad Reports. The latter is more close to the typical F. 
 planicosta, and comes certainly from an Eocene rock. 

VENERID^. 

DosiNiA. As the three species referred to this genus by 
 Mr. Gabb, are without figure or description of the hinge, their 
 generic characters are unknown. I should not be surprised 
 if D. inflata has the hinge character of Cyprinella. 

DosiNiOPSis, Conrad. European species, Oyprina planata, 
 Sowerby ; Vemis plana, Sowerby. A genus of the Senonien 
 and Older Eocene. American species, D. alta, Con., D. lenti- 
 cularis, Rogers, D. Meekvi, Con. {D. alta, Gabb, not Conrad), 
 all of which are Older Eocene species. 

Hamites Vancouverensis, pi. 18, fig. 18, I believe to be 
 an Ancylocerus. 

Ptycoceras ^quicostatus is more likely to be Hamites. 

Neptunea curvirostris, pi. 18, fig. 37, I believe to repre- 
 sent an undescribed genus. 

Lysis, Gabb. This genus is related to Carinorhis, Conrad, 
 {Glathrella, Recluz.) 

* There are some other Eocene forms in Europe allied to these, which I 
 think may constitute a genus, Priscoficus. Examples : P. inter mediae Mel- 
 ville ; P. Smithii Sowerby. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 101 

OBSERVATIONS ON RECENT AND FOSSIL SHELLS, 
 WITH PROPOSED NEW GENERA AND SPECIES. 

BY T. A, CONRAD. 

CEPHALOPODA. 
 NAUTILIDiE. 

NAUTILUS, Breyn. 

Nautilus perforatus, Conrad. — Journal of the Academy of 
 Natural Sciences, second series, vol i., p. 213. 

As it is impossible to say whetlier Solander's scrohiculatus 
 represents this species or umbilicatus, I retain the name under 
 which I described it. Chemnitz's figure,' if intended for this 
 shell, is badly drawn, as the umbilicus is represented as much 
 wider, the volutions narrower, and the aperture with wider 
 outer margin and direct sides, whilst in the present shell the 
 sides slightly taper, and the outer margin is much more acutely 
 rounded. 

Dillwyn says the volutions of scrohiculatus are smooth, but 
 in our shell the whorls are transversely striate and undulato- 
 plicate. The centre of the umbilicus is perforated, and there 
 are minute close rugose lines on the back, which are well 
 represented in Knorr's figure, vol. iv., t. 22,. and which figure 
 agrees very well with N. perforatus in every detail except 
 color. Under the lens the fiat sides exhibit minute rugose 
 and granulated transverse lines, but no longitudinal ones, 
 which are limited to the rounded dorsal region. 

HERCOGLOSSA, Conrad. 

Nautiloid ; septa angular and linguiform ; apex of the angle, 
 or tongue-shaped lobe, not contiguous with the adjacent sep- 
 tum ; siphon large or moderate, situated within the centre, 
 or between the middle and inner' margin, and not dorsal or 
 funnel shaped, but tubular and gradually tapering. 

NAUTILUS ORBICULATUS, Tuomey. 

This genus contains Aturia Mattheivsoni, Gabb, and perhaps 
 another from N. Jersey. Eocene species, Nautilus Parkinsoni, 
 Edwards. An undoubted species of Aturia, which is charac- 

102 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

terized by tlie funnel-shaped dorsal sipliuncle, has not yet 
 been found below the Eocene. Mr. Gabb does not describe 
 the sipbuncle or its position in his shell, and I have been 
 guided only by the angles of the septa not being contiguous 
 and its geological position in the cretaceous formation. If 
 Mr. Gabb will compare the specimens from Division A with 
 those in Division B, and note the differences, if any, especially 
 in the siphon, it will be important both in a stratigraphical 
 and conchological point of view. My attention to this subject 
 has very recently been called by the account of JSf. Parhinsoni, 
 in Edwards' Monograph of the Eocene Cephalopoda, and when 
 I first saw the figure of Aturia Matthewsoni I had no doubt of 
 its being an Aturia. 

CIMOMIA, Conrad. 

Nautiloid ; septa sinuous, double-waved, or sigmoid, nume- 
 rous ; siphon small, central. 

Nautilus Buetini, Galeotti. — Lower Eocene. 

I do not think any of the cretaceous forms are certainly of 
 this genus. 

APOKRHAID^. 

ANCHURA, Conrad. 

Description. — Genus unknown in the Tertiary. It has a 
 prolonged straight labrum, which either has one long ensiform 
 curve or is biangulated, abrupt, and broad on the outer mar- 
 gin ; the latter being the typical form and the former the 
 subgenus Drepanochilus, Meek. The cretaceous species of 
 France, as figured by D'Orbigny, are 1 Rost. Dupiniana, 2 R. 
 Robinaldina, 3 R. alpina, 4 R. asteriana, 5 R. carinata, 6 R. 
 calcarata, 7 R. tricostata^ 8 R. carinella, 9 R. Parh'nsoni, 10 
 R. simplex, 11 R. ornata, 12 R. Requieniana. Of these No. 6, 
 7, 10, 11, 12 represent the subgenus Drepanochilus, Meek. 

TELLINID^. 

CYPRIMERIA, Conrad. 

This genus is limited to the Chalk Period, and embraces the 
 following species : G. Texana [Arcopagia Texana, Roemer), C. 
 densata [Arcojmgia densata, Conrad), G. excavata [Gytherea ex- 
 cavata^ Morton), and G. Peruviana, Conrad. European species : 
 G. concentrica [Girce concentrica, Zittel), G. cretacea {Dosinia 
 cretacea, Zittel), G. primseva {Gyclina primseva, Zittel), G. discus 
 [Lucina discus, Matheron), Arcopagia numismalis, D'Orbigny, 
 A. rotundata, D'Orbigny. I should have proposed another 
 name had I properly understood the family characters of this 
 shell when I published it. 

OF coNciioLoar. 103 

CYPRINID^. 

VENILIA, Morton. 

This is another genus of the Chalk which characterizes the 
 Gosau deposits and the Senonien strata of North America. 
 The American species are as follows: V. Conradi. Morton, F. 
 rhomhoidea, Con., V. humilis, Meek, V. Gabbana, Meek, V. sub- 
 tiwiida, Meek, V. trapezoidea, Con., V. trigona, Gabb, V. La- 
 phami, Shumard sp. European species: V. creiacea {(Jypri- 
 cardia testacea, Zittel), V. bifida [Cyprina bifida^ Zittel), V. 
 crassidentata {Cyp>rina crassidentata, Zittel), V. cycladiformis 
 {Cyprina cycladiformis, Zittel), V. planidorsata {Isocardia plani- 
 dorsata, Zittel). A genus unknown in the Tertiary. 

CARDITID^. 

PSEUDOCARDIA, Conrad. 
 G. Smidti, Horn, C. Sungaricum^ H., G. Mageri, H., G. Ha- 
 ueri, H., G. apertum, Munster, C. conjugens^ Partch., V. Neoco- 
 miensis, D'Orb., V. quadrata, D'Orb., V. tenuicostata, Zittel, V- 
 Dupiniana, D'Orb., V. constantii, D'Orb., V. cottaldina^ D'Orb., 
 V. dubia, Sowerby. A genus which became extinct in the 
 Upper Cretaceous Period, 

MYTILID^? 

ORTHONOTA, Conrad. 

The type of this genus is 0. undulata, Con. European 
 species: Sanguinolites anguliferus^ M'Coy, S. iridenoides^ 
 M'Coy, S. clava, M'Coy, 0. rigida^ Sowerby, 0. inornata, Phil. 
 American species : 0. undulata, Con., 0. carinata, Con. 

The genus is easily recognized by its narrow, elongated 
 form, with nearly or quite rectilinear and parallel dorsal and 
 ventral margins, and by the presence of either undulations or 
 oblique raised lines posteriorly. The shells were extremely 
 thin, apparently without cardinal teeth. 

SOLENID^. 

PLECTOSOLEN, Conrad. 

Under this head I propose to group some Older Eocene 
 forms, which are straight or slightly recurved ; beaks nearly 
 terminal ; an anterior furrow direct or oblique, with a corre- 
 sponding ridge within. European species: Solen gracilis, 
 Sowerby, S. obliquus, Sowerby, *S'. Dixoni, Sowerby, Gultellus 
 affinis, Sowerby, S. angusius, Deshayes, S. proximus, Deshayes. 
 American species : S. protextus, Con. (Oregon.) 

104 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

DESCRIPTIONS OP NEW SPECIES OP TERTIARY, 
 CRETACEOUS, AND RECENT SHELLS. 

BY T. A. CONRAD, 

CRASSATELLID^. 

CRASSATELLA. 

C. PERALTA, Conrad.— PI. 8, fig. 1. 

Descri2')tion. — Subtriangular ; height rather more than the 
 length ; convex ; cardinal margin oblique ; posterior margin 
 widely subtruncated, with a slightly inward slope. 

Locality. — G.oshen, Cape May Co., N. J. Mr. Ashmead. 

Observations.— -A. very perfect ferruginous cast of this species 
 from a new locality, which I suppose to be Miocene, was found 
 in company with the following species, a less perfect cast. 
 They are widely dissimilar to other known species. 

G. PLANATA, Conrad. — PI. 8, fig. 4. 

Description. — Subovate, compressed, anteriorly obliquely 
 truncated inwards; posteriorly slightly produced ; extremity 
 nearly medial in relation to the height of the shell. (Cast.) 

C. CURTA, Conrad.— PL 8, fig. 2. 

Description. — Subtriangular, convex ; rather longer than 
 liigh ; posterior end truncated, direct ; ventral margin rounded 
 in the middle, rectilinear posteriorly ; cardinal plate broad. 

G. curta, Conrad. — Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1862, p. 
 578. 

Locality. — Virginia ? 

VENBRID.E. 

MERCENARIA, Schum. 

M, OBTUSA, Conrad.— PI, 8, fig. 3. 

Description. — Cordate-triangular, very inequilateral, thick 
 and ponderous, ventricose, densely covered with reflexed la- 
 minated concentric lines, and with obsolete radiating lines in 
 the middle of the valves ; posterior end obtusely rounded, the 
 extremity truncated either direct or obliquely inwards ; beaks 
 prominent ; lunale large, cordate, impressed ; inner margin 
 densely crenate ; anterior cicatrix large and profound. 

OF CONCHOLOQY. 105 

Locality. — Patuxent Eiver, Virginia. 

Observations. — Having two entire specimens, large and small, 
 which perfectly agree in their characters, I consider this a 
 very distinct species, allied to M. suhmortoni, D'Orbigny. 

Var. ^.— SHghtly produced and subcuneiform posteriorly. 
 CHAMID.E. 

ARCINELLA. 

Arcinella coenuta, Conrad. 

Description. — Orbicular-cordate ; radiating ribs very spinous ; 
 spines very thick, tubular ; interstices deep, rugoso-punctate ; 
 lunale broadly cordate ; buccal side granulated, 

Ghama arcinella, Tuomey and Holmes (not Lamarck). Plio- 
 cene Fossils of South Carolina, p. 22, pi. vii.; fig. 4, 5, 6. 

Observations. — This species differs from the recent one in 
 being larger, much thicker, and more especially in having 
 fewer spines, which are much thicker than in the recent 
 species, and not in two series of thick and thin spines, which 
 characterize the latter, 

TELLINID.^, 
 Cyprimeeia Peeuviana, Conrad. — PI. 9, fig. 1. 

Description. — Subtriangular, inequilateral, lentiform, pos- 
 terior extremity opposite the end of the cardinal line ; ventral 
 margin rounded. 

Locality.— KvciOion^Q,, Peru. Dr. Kuschenberger. 

Observations. — Mr. Darwin refers to a few fossils, an Ammo- 
 nite, Baculite, ko,., at Conception, which he inclines to believe 
 belong to an Older Tertiary formation. I have no doubt of 
 their Cretaceous origin, and the present genus is an additional 
 proof of the presence of Cretaceous strata in Peru. 

ANOMIIDiE. 

DIPLOSCHIZA, Conrad. 

D. cretacea, Conrad.— pi. 9, figs. 2, 3. 
 American Journ. of Conch., vol. i., p. 77. 

TERBBEATULID^. 
 Terebeatulina filosa. Con.— pi. 9, figs. 4, 5. 

American Journ. of Conch., vol. i., p. 77, 

Observations. — This species is more nearly of the outline of 
 T. gracilis of Europe than of T. Gaudalupse, Roemer, a species 
 of Texas. The latter has a more tapering and prominent 
 umbo and a shorter hinge line, and the smaller valve much 
 more convex. 

106 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

TELLINID^ ? 

CUMINGIA MEDiALis, Conrad. 

Description. — Ovate-trigonal ; beaks central ; surface with 
 concentric lamellar lines ; posterior side folded, with the op- 
 posite ventral margin emarginate. 

Gumingia tellinoides, Con. — Miocene Foss., p. 28, pi. 14, fig. 4. 

Locality.— -JsLmes River, Virginia. 

Observations. — This species is much larger than the recent 
 C. tellinoides^ and differs in being proportionablj shorter, in 
 having central beaks, a much larger hinge plate, &c. It is 
 very variable in form, and has the habits of Saxicava. 

RECENT SPECIES. 
 ANATINID^. 

PERIPLOMAjSchum. 

P. FRAGiLis, Totten. 

Description. — " Thin, fragile, white, rounded ovate, inequilate- 
 ral ; the shorter side narrowed and truncated; tooth narrow, 
 directed obliquely forward." — Gould. 

Anatina borealis, Gould (not Say). This species is much 
 more elevated and proportionably shorter than P. papyratia., 
 Say, which is found only on the Southern coast. It is more 
 nearly related to P. alta.^ Conrad, a Miocene fossil of New 
 Jersey, but that species has more prominent beaks and a hinge 
 plate very different in form. As Col. Totten refers to me as 
 having influenced his reference of this species to P. papyratia.^ 
 it is proper to adopt his proposed name, which was suggested 
 by some doubts of its being Say's species. Its close relation 
 to the New Jersey Miocene species is very interesting, because 
 it lives, apparently, no further south than Massachusetts, and 
 the Miocene species is associated with abundance of Crassatella, 
 a dementia, yfhioh genus now inhabits Australia and the Phi- 
 lippine Islands ; Carditamera, which is unknown in a recent 
 state north of Florida; Ecphora, an extinct Miocene genus 
 with two species, one American and one European. 

OF CONCnOLOQY. lOT 

DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OP UNIO. 

BY T. A. CONRAD. 

Unio depygis, Conrad. — PI. 10, fig. 1. 

Description. — Short, suboval, subcompressed, beaks situated 
 behind the middle ; disks slightly tumid medially ; posterior 
 side flattened or slightly contracted ; opposite ventral margin 
 truncated ; anterior ventral and anterior margins regularly 
 rounded ; posterior margin truncated, direct ; beaks undulato- 
 plicate; epidermis olivaceous, indistinctly rayed posteriorly, 
 and clouded with dark green about the umbo ; anterior car- 
 dinal tooth long and very oblique. 

Locality. — Harpeth River, Tennessee. W. H. DeCamp, M. D. 

Cabinet of Dr. Wm. H. DeCamp, Grand Eapids, Mich. 

Observations. — More compressed than U. lens and less pon- 
 derous. It is also a larger species, and very peculiar in hav- 
 ing so short a posterior side and no obliquity of outline. 

108 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OP VIVIPARA. 

BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 

ViviPARA Waltonii, Tryon. — t. 10, f. 2. 

Description. — Shell ovate-conic, moderately thick, the surface 
 marked only by growth lines ; spire pyramidal, suture well 
 impressed; whorls 5 — 6, moderately convex, regularly and 
 slowly increasing, the last two-thirds of the total length ; 
 aperture small, rounded oval ; umbilicus scarcely covered by 
 the columellar lip; surface polished, light olive, with revolving 
 bands, which are visible in the interior of the mouth. 

Dimensio7is. — Length 22, diam. 17 mill., length of aperture 
 13 mill. 

Locality. — St. John's Eiver, Florida. Mrs. Margaretta 
 "Walton. 

Cabinet of Dr. E. Michener, Avondale, Chester Co., Penna. 

Observations. — The above species was first observed by Mr. 
 Say, who thus remarks upon it : "Paludina elongata, Swainson. 
 Capt. Leconte presented me with a shell which, he informed 
 me, he found in the River St. John, Florida. I described it 
 nearly four years since under the name of multilineata ; but 
 recently, being about to publish it, on a more attentive exami- 
 nation and comparison with a specimen of the elongata from 
 Calcutta, given to me by Mr. Hyde, of Philadelphia, I have 
 concluded that it varies from that specimen only in having the 
 umbilicus a little smaller." — Neiu Harmony Disseminator, ii. 
 p. 245, Aug. 12, 1829. 

In the "American Conchology," plate x., Mr. Say figured 
 this species under the name of vivipara, Linn., and his figures 
 are copied, with the same name, in Prof. Haldeman's " Mono- 
 graph of the Limniades," pi. vi., f. 3, 4. In the last-mentioned 
 work another figure is given of a young specimen (pi. vii., f. 
 3, 4) under the name of Bengalensis, Lam. (=eh7igata, Swn.). 
 This is from a specimen deposited by Mrs. Say in the museum 
 of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and 
 believed to be the original specimen received by Say from 
 Florida. 

OP CONCHOLOQY. " 109 

Prof. Haldeman remarks : " There appears to be no reason 
 to doubt the locality of this specimen ; at any rate, Say was 
 satisfied upon this point, and I accordingly admit it as indige- 
 nous upon his authority. I have compared the original speci- 
 men with shells from Calcutta, and find that it dift'ers as little 
 from them as they do from each other. If this is not the Ben- 
 galensis of Lamarck, it must have the name given to it by Say, 
 that of Swainson having been previously given to a fossil 
 species." 

I have made many comparisons of this species with the Ben- 
 galensis of Lamarck without detecting the resemblances which 
 misled Messrs. Say and Haldeman. The history of almost any 
 genus in Conchology shows a great progressive development 
 of acute discrimination in the study of its species, and perhaps 
 no group of shells can be cited as a more instructive example 
 of this substantial progress than the one of which this is a 
 member. In the time of Linnaeus, his Helix vivipara was fully 
 understood to embrace all the banded Viviparse, but from it 
 was soon separated i\ie fasciata, Miill. {achatina, Drap.) These 
 two species became afterwards the types of two subdivisions, 
 constituting the great fiasciate group of the restricted genus 
 Vivipara (from the old genus has been separated 3Ielantho, 
 Tulotoma, Lioplax^ etc.) These divisions are distinguished in 
 all their species by a marked difference in the convexity of the 
 whorls, and in their rapidity of increase in size. 

The first type, V. vivipara, is represented in America by at 
 least three species, Y. lineata^ Val., V. intertexta^ Say, and V. 
 Bermondiana, D'Orb. These are all globose species, with 
 rapidly enlarging whorls, very convex, with deep sutures. V. 
 lineata has been almost constantly, to the present time, con- 
 founded with V. vivipara by American authors ; but its very 
 constant specific difference was long since pointed out by 
 Kiister in his "Oonchylien Cabinette." The shell herein de- 
 scribed is confounded by Say and Haldeman (partly) with 
 this division, whereas it undoubtedly belongs to the other. 

The second division of the group, represented typically by 
 V. fasciata, has been enlarged by European naturalists by the 
 elimination of several distinct species, among which may be 
 cited V. pyramidalis, Jan. The shells of this division have 
 higher spires, the whorls much less convex and increasing in 
 size more gradually. This group is represented in America, 
 so far as we are aware, hy one species only, the one now de- 
 scribed. 

Both divisions are represented by exotic species, and it 
 remains to distinguish V. Waltonii from V. Bengalensis, which 
 belongs to the same division. The most striking difference is 
 that of color, Waltonii having the warm reddish tints of the 

110 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

European and American species, while Bengalensis is a light 
 but dull green, and its bands a darker green. The latter also 
 has a longer spire, and its whorls are not quite so convex. 

The specimen I have figured is intermediate in size between 
 the Vivipara figured by Say and the Bengalensis figured by 
 Haldeman ; and, although Say proposed a description under 
 the name of multilineata, and Haldeman describes " numerous 
 narrow spiral bands" in Bengalensis, yet an examination of 
 both their figures will show but four bands, the number on 
 the two specimens before me. It is, perhaps, possible to sepa- 
 rate each band into several closely approximate revolving 
 colored lines, but this may be done with almost any fasciate 
 shell. I insist upon this point in the present instance, because 
 the possession of four bands stamps this species as North Ame- 
 rican in its origin, and because Bengalensis has, in common 
 with other Asiatic species, numerous distinct narrow bands. 
 (I count twelve on one specimen in my cabinet.) We can 
 probably even determine the origin of these species by this 
 character alone ; thus : — 

A. Bands Red. 
 Two banded. Cuban. V. Bermondiana, the 

only species. 
 Three banded. European. Every fasciate species. 

Four banded. North American. Every fasciate species. 

B. Bands Green. 
 Bands numerous. Asiatic (Indian). V. Bengalensis, V. Bi- 

gallsiamis, etc. 
 Australian. V. suprafasciata, V. 

Austra lis, V. Ess ing- 
 tonensis. 
 Not Banded. 
 Asiatic and American. 
 It will be noticed that Mr. Say did not describe his specimens 
 from Florida under the name of multilineata. Prof. Haldeman, 
 therefore, ought not to have quoted this name in his synonymy 
 of V. vivipara. ^ir. Say at first suspected his shell to be new, 
 but on publishing it, concluded that it was not so ; I am, there- 
 fore, at liberty to affix a name to this species, and multilineata 
 would be inappropriate, as not describing correctly one of the 
 characters of the shell, and as indicating a foreign origin of 
 the species ; besides it is preoccupied by my friend, Prof. Meek, 
 for a fossil species discovered in Nebraska. I, therefore, dedi- 
 cate it to the lady who collected the specimens in Dr. Mich- 
 ener's cabinet. 

Dr. Michener allowed me to examine also specimens of Y. 
 lineata from the same locality, and differing in no respect from 
 specimens from other portions of the Southern States. 

OF CONCnOLOGY. Ill 

DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW FLUVIATILE MOLLUSCA, 

BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 

1. Melania pr^mordica, Tryon. — t. 10, f. 3. 

Description. — Shell ovately conical, robust, covered with 
 regular, close, curved growth lines, and with rounded revolv- 
 ing ribs, of which seven are on the body whorl ; spire conical 
 elevated, ? (eroded), suture deeply impressed ; whorls convex, 
 surface formed into a succession of planes by the revolving 
 ribs; aperture ovate, a little broadly effused below; the ribs 
 form slight sulcations within the aperture. Reddish-brown, 
 sometimes dark greenish-brown ; internally white or light yel- 
 lowish, the sulcations deep brown. 

Dimensions. — Length (eroded) 30 mill. ; diameter 22 mill. 

Habitat. — Burmah. 

My cabinet. Cabinets of Isaac Lea, Philada., and Charles 
 M. Wheatley, Phoenixville, Penn. 

Observations. — This is a very remarkable species. There 
 are very few which possess revolving ribs, and in all those 
 previously known they are tuberculate. In general form and 
 color this species resembles M. gloriosa, Anth., described in 
 vol. i. of this Journal, but it is a much smaller species. In 
 ornamentation it is nearest, perhaps, to J/, lyrata, Menke,* but 
 is a larger, stouter species, without tuberculatious. 

I owe to Isaac Lea, Esq., the opportunity of describing this 
 interesting exotic species. 

2. Lymn'^a(Limnophysa) Shurtleffii, Tryon. — 1. 10, f 4, 5. 

Description. — Ovate-cylindrical, rather thin, diaphanous, 
 minutely concentrically striate • spire moderately elevated, 
 apex acute, suture impressed ; whorls six, flatly convex, the 
 last one three-fourths the length of the shell, subcylindrical, 
 compressed on the sides ; aperture one-half the total length, 
 contracted, somewhat ear-shaped, columella with a considera- 
 * Reeve Gonch. Icon. Melania, fig. 170. 

112 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

ble twist, reflected over and nearly covering the umbilicus. 
 Light brown or horn color, shining, tip of spire and interior 
 margin of labrum colored dark bluish -purple. 

Dimensions. — Length 19 mill., diam. 9 mill. 
 Habitat. — Weatogue, Hartford Co., Conn. Dr. S. Shurtleflf. 
 My cabinet. Cabinet of Isaac Lea. Cabinet of Dr. Shurt- 
 leff. 

Observations. — The circumstances under which this and the 
 following species were found are so peculiar that it is with 
 o-reat hesitation that I have ventured on a description of either 
 of them. That new species of these shells should exist unde- 
 tected in sections of the United States which have been so well 
 explored by assiduous naturalists, would be surprising; but in 
 the present instance the almost irresistible supposition is, that 
 these species are of very recent origin, in fact, contemporaneous 
 with that of the body of water which they inhabit. I have 
 looked in vain for some evidence upon the specimens them- 
 selves of the effect of some strong local influence. The species 
 are so distinct that they afford no clue to a possible derivation 
 from others. 

In conclusion, I present the following interesting particu- 
 lars : — 

Extract from a letter from the late Dr. S. Shurtleff to Isaac 
 Lea, Esq., dated Weatogue, Hartford Co., Conn., November 
 22, 1865. 

"In the summer of 1860 I made an excavation some two 
 rods below a spring that flows about eight months in the year. 
 The spring comes from a neighboring hill. The overlying 
 rock is New Red Sandstone. From the time of the excavation 
 until the summer of 1864 there was water in the artificial pond. 
 It was dry in 1864, but I did not examine for shells, as before 
 the excavation I had repeatedly examined the spring, but 
 never found shells of any description. 

"After m}^ return from Pennsylvania in September, 1865, 
 accidentally crossing the pond, which was dry, I noticed quan- 
 tities of shells clustured in the hollows. I gathered a few and 
 laid them by for leisure examination ; and when I came to 
 look at them again, I found L. umbrosa, as I supposed, as well 
 as a nondescript species. I immediately went to the pond 
 and secured all the Lymnseans I could find — some alive and 
 many dead ; and, fearing the dry season would destroy them 
 all, I put many of the living shells into another pond I have 
 since made, that will never dry up. I may have collected 50 
 specimens of L. umbrosa? and of the other specimens a half 
 pint. 

OF CONCnOLOOY. 113 

" How these shells came in the pond is as much a matter of 
 surprise to me as it is to you, I have no knowledge that 
 there was ever a shell put into the pond. 

" One fact more. The spring and pond are perfectly isolated. 
 as the overflow disappears at the edge of a sandy plain in less 
 than ten rods from its fountain-head, and there is no stream of 
 perpetual running water within one mile of it. The Farming- 
 ton River is about a mile distant in the valley below, and here 
 the only species yet found are Lym. columella, Say, Physa he- 
 terostropha, Say, Planorhis hicarinatus, Say, Vivipara decisa^ 
 Say, Unio complanatus, Sol., and U. radiatus, Lam. 

"The pond is two hundred feet above the bed of Farming- 
 ton Biver." 

3. Planorbis (Gyraulus) circumstriatus, Tryon. — t. 10 
 f. 6—8. 

Description. — Shell small, rugose, generally distorted in 
 adult specimens (the whorls not proceeding in the same plane, 
 but elevated or depressed below it at times) ; volutions four, 
 convex, increasing very slowly in diameter, with deeply im- 
 pressed suture, towards the aperture deflected ; below concave, 
 but exhibiting all the volutions, with two or three raised 
 revolving lines; aperture small, very oblique Light horn 
 color. 

Dimensions. — Diameter 6 mill., height IJ mil'i. 

Sahitat. — Artificial pond at Weatogue, Conn. Dr. S 
 Shurtleft". 

My cabinet. Cabinet of Mr. Lea. Cabinet of Dr. Shurtleff. 

Observations. — This species is of the same size as Planorhula 
 armigera, Say, and its upper surface is remarkably like that 
 shell. It differs, however, in its unarmed, oblique aperture, 
 and concave, lineated under surface. 

The deflected aperture reminds one of PI. dejiectus, but from 
 that, as well as parvus and alius, it is distinguished by the 
 slow increase in the size of the whorls. 

The remarkable raised revolving lines are visible on the 
 under surface of all the adults before me, but on a number of 
 young shells I can detect no trace of them. 

Besides the above two species, I find a single specimen of 
 Lym. umbrosa, Say, and several of L. desidiosa, Say, 

114 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

OBSERVATIONS ON AN ABNORMAL SPECIMEN OP 
 PHYSA GYRINA. 

BY GEOEGE W. TRY ON, JR. 

Plate 10, Figs. 9, 10. 

The sliell first figured is from Grand Rapids, Mich., and 
 was sent to me by J. A. McNeil, Esq., of that place, where the 
 species occurs abundantly. The monstrosity consists in the 
 upper portion of the whorls being round-shouldered or geni- 
 culate, with a deep immersed suture, making the spire some- 
 what scalariform, but short. 

It is well known that Paludina scalaris, Jay, a Florida 
 species, was described from a single specimen in the author's 
 cabinet, and that no other specimens have since occurred. 
 The singular deformation of the present species suggests to 
 me the probability that scalaris also is a more exaggerated 
 example of the same aberrant formation. 

A copy of Dr. Jay's original figure (fig. 10) is given for 
 comparison. 

OF CONCIIOLOGY. 115 

MONOGRAPH OF THE FAMILY STREPOMATIDJE. 

{Concluded from p. 52.] 
 BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 
 GONIOBASIS, Lea. (Continued.) 

J. Heavy, piipseform or cylindrical species. 

217. G. cylindracea, Con. Figs. 298, 299. Cylindrical, 
 smooth, very thick; spire short, truncate, suture irregularly 
 much impressed ; body whorl cylindrical; aperture very long 
 and narrow, very much contracted above. Yellowish horn 
 color, sometimes banded. N. Ala. Miss. 
 Fig. 299 is from the type of M oppugnata, Lea. 
 _ 218. G. pupoidea, Anth. Figs. 300, 301. Narrowly cy- 
 lindrical, smooth, thick ; spire somewhat raised, conical, suture 
 much impressed ; whorls 6, flattened above ; aperture small, 
 elliptical. Yellowish, four-banded. Coosa and Cahawha Riv., 
 Ala. 

Narrower, with longer spire and smaller aperture than G. cylindracea. 
 Fig. 301 represents G'. propinqua, Lea. 

219. G. lita, Lea. Fig. 303. Eugosely striate, thick ; spire 
 obtusely elevated, suture irregularly impressed ; whorls 6, the 
 last subcylindrical ; aperture small, constricted. Greenish- 
 brown, white or purple within. Cahawha River, Ala. 

220. G. fallax, Lea, Fig. 804. Pupieform, somewhat cy- 
 lindrical, smooth, spire obtuse, much elevated, suture im- 
 pressed ; whorls 7, slightly convex, the last subcylindrical ; 
 aperture small, very much constricted, elongate elliptical, an- 
 gular at base. Dark brown or dark horn color, sometimes 
 four-banded within. Coosa River., A la. 

221. G. inosculata, Lea. Fig. 305. Inflated, pupceform, 
 thick ; spire elevated, suture very much impressed ; whorls 7, 
 convex, the last subcylindrical; aperture very small, elliptical. 
 Yellowish-brown, four-banded. Coosa River, Ala. 

More inflated, of brighter color, and more distinctly banded than G. 
 fallax. 

116 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

222. G. Alabamensis, Lea. Fig. 306. Inflated, pupce- 
 form, thick ; spire raised, obtuse, suture very mucli impressed ; 
 whorls 7, very convex ; body whorl subcylindrical ; aperture 
 small, constricted. Yellowish, four-banded. Coosa Riv., Ala. 

Much more convex than 0. inosculata. 

223. G. rara, .Lea. Fig. 307. Conical, somewhat scalari- 
 form, thick ; spire raised, scalariform, suture irregularly im- 
 pressed ; whorls 8, flattened, angular above ; aperture small, 
 elliptical, angular at base. Dark olive, shining, purple within. 
 Coosa River, Ala. 

May possibly be a monstrosity of O. fallax. 

224. G. punicea, Lea. Fig. 308. Subcylindrical, smooth, 
 thick ; spire elevated, conical, suture impressed ; aperture 
 small, ovately rounded. Eeddish-brown, white within. Coosa 
 River, Ala. 

225. G. pudica, Lea. Fig. 309. Smooth, conical, some- 
 what thick; spire conical, suture irregularly impressed; whorls 
 6, slightly convex ; aperture small, ovate. Olive or reddish, 
 shining. N. Ala. 

This species has been confounded with O. olivula, Con. It is a smaller, 
 more solid shell. 

226. G. fabalis, Lea. Fig. 310. Elliptical, smooth, thick ; 
 spire very obtuse, suture irregularly impressed ; whorls 4, 
 convex, the last large; aperture large, subrhomboidal. Yel- 
 lowish, four-banded, white and banded within. Tenn. River. 

227. G. Shelbyensis, Lea. Fig. 311. Fusiform, smooth, 
 somewhat thick ; spire obtusely conical, suture impressed ; 
 whorls 6, slopingly convex ; aperture small, subovate. Yel- 
 lowish, sometimes banded, white within. Yellowleaf Creek, 
 Ala. 

Closely allied to O. pudica, but differs somewhat in the shape of the aper- 
 ture. The whorls also are not so convex. 

228. G. fumea, Lea. Fig. 312. Conical, smooth, rather 
 thin; spire somewhat raised, suture irregularly impressed; 
 whorls 5 — 6, flattened above, somewhat inflated below ; aper- 
 ture ovate-rhombic. Sooty brown, sometimes obscurely band- 
 ed, whitish within. Yellowleaf Creek, Ala. 

229. G. aequa, Lea. Fig. 313. Conical, thick, substriate ; 
 spire conical, elevated, obtuse, suture moderate; whorls 6, flat- 
 tened above; aperture small, rhomboidal. Dark brown, whit- 
 ish within. Yellowleaf Creek, Ala. 

230. G. solidula, Lea. Fig. 314. Subfusiform, smooth, 
 obtusely conical, somewhat thick ; spire raised, suture mode- 
 rate; whorls 5, slightly convex; aperture large, ovate. Yel- 
 lowish, banded, whitish within. Yellowleaf Creek, Ala. 

OF CONCHOLOGY, lit 

231. G. Olivula, Conrad. Figs. 315, 316. Subfusiforra, 
 smooth, somewhat thin; spire conical, decollate, suture very 
 much impressed ; whorls about 6, somewhat convex, the last 
 one large ; aperture large, ovate, rounded below. Greenish- 
 olive, obscurely banded, yellowish- white within. N. Ala. 

Fig. 316 represents 0. lepida, Lea. 

232. G. fascinans, Lea. Fig. 317. 'Fusiform, smooth, 
 somewhat thick, shining ; spire high, conical, suture impressed; 
 whorls 6, slightly convex ; aperture small, somewhat retuse at 
 base. Yellowish horn color, with three narrow bands. Yel- 
 lowleaf Greek, Ala. 

More conical and less convex than 0. olimUa. 

233. G. Showalterii, Lea. Fig. 318. Fusiform, rather 
 thick ; spire obtusely elevated, suture impressed ; whorls 6, 
 flatly convex, the last large ; aperture large, ovately rhombic, 
 outer lip sharp and slightly sinuate. Yellowish-brown, with 
 four narrow bands. Coosa and Cahawha Rivers, Ala. 

This species is more convex than O. fascinans, and has four bands. 

233a. G. pupaeformis, Lea. Fig. 319. Sub-pupseform, 
 rather thick, smooth, suture impressed; whorls 6, slightly 
 convex; aperture rather large, elongate-pyriform. Dark 
 brown, obsoletely five-banded. Coosa River, Ala. 

23-1. G. clausa, Lea. Fig. 320. Subpupgeform, thick, 
 very obtusely inflated ; spire short, convex conical, suture 
 we'll impressed; whorls 7, somewhat convex; aperture very 
 small, subrhomboidal, angular at base, columella straight. 
 Olive, with or without bands. Coosa River, Ala. 

235. G. crepera, Lea. Fig. 321. Conical, somewhat thick, 
 substriate; spire somewhat raised, suture irregularly impressed; 
 whorls 6, somewhat convex ; aperture ovately rhombic, angu- 
 lar below. Sooty brown. Yellowleaf Creek, Ala. 

236. G. abscida, Aalh. Fig. 322. Subquadrate, smooth, 
 thick ; spire nearly plane from erosion ; whorls 5, the last very 
 large ; aperture long and narrow, subrhombic, the outer lip 
 well curved below. Dark reddish-brown. Ala. 

Closely allied to, if not identical with, G. crepera. Only one specimen is 
 known. 

237. G. Vanuxemiana, L^ea. Fig. 323. Obtusely conical, 
 convex, striate, solid ; spire conical, suture impressed ; whorls 
 6, somewhat convex ; aperture ov^ate. Yellowish, four-banded. 
 Ala. 

238. G. Coosaensis, Lea. Fig. 324. Fusiform, or sub- 
 elliptical, rather thick, coarsely striate; spire raised, conical, 
 suture well impressed; whorls 7, slightly convex, the last 
 large and narrowed below ; aperture oblique, long and very 
 narrow, angular at base. Horn color, four- banded. Coosa 
 River, Ala. 

118 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

239. G. rubiciinda, Lea. Fig. 325. Subfusiform, thick, 
 regularly striate ; spire elevated, convex conical, suture im- 
 pressed ; whorls 6, slightly convex ; aperture elongate ellipti- 
 cal, angular at base. Reddish without and within. Coosa 
 River, Ala. 

Not so coarsely striate as Coosaensis ; the aperture is also wider. 

240. G. Hayesiana, Lea. Figs. 326—328. Subcylindrical, 
 striate, solid ; spire elevated, conical, suture well impressed ; 
 whorls 6, flattened; aperture small, elliptical. Yellowish- 
 brown. Ala. 

241. G. arctata, Lea. Fig. 329. Subfusiform, compressed 
 at the sides, coarsely striate, thick ; spire conical, suture much 
 impressed ; whorls 6, flattened ; aperture narrow, rhomboidal, 
 angularly produced below. Yellowish horn color. Tuscaloo- 
 sa, Ala. 

242. G. ampla, Anth. Figs. 330, 331. Conical, elevated, 
 smooth, rather thick ; spire obtusely conical, suture well im- 
 pressed; whorls 7, somewhat flattened, the last large; aperture 
 large, ovately rhomboidal, obtusely angular at base, columella 
 incurved. Dark horn or olive color, much banded. Coosa 
 and Cahawba Rivers, Ala. 

Fig. 331 represents Hartmanii, Lea, the full grown of this species; it is 
 the largest of the genus. Some specimens are slightly striate. 

243. G mellea, Lea. Fig. 332. Conical, subfusiform, 
 smooth, rather thick ; spire conical, sharp-pointed, suture well 
 impressed ; whorls 7, convex, rapidly enlarging, the last very 
 convex and large; aperture rhomboidal, angular below, colu- 
 mella perpeudicuLar. Bright honey-yellow, sometimes four- 
 banded. Coosa River, Ala. 

244. G. ambusta, Anth. Fig. 333. Ovate, rather thin, 
 smooth ; spire obtusely elevated ; whorls 6, subconvex, the last 
 large and obsoletely striate ; aperture large, narrowly ovate. 
 Chocolate color, reddish within. Ala. 

245. G. Iseta, Jay. Figs. 334—336. Inflated fusiform, 
 thick, smooth or coarsely striate ; spire obtusely conical, suture 
 impressed ; whorls 6, rather convex, the last large ; aperture 
 large, elliptical, angular at base. Yellowish, with or without 
 bands, white within. Coosa River, Ala. 

Fig. 334 is a fac-simile of the rather poor one of Dr. Jay's Catalogue. The 
 species is generally striate. Fig. 336 represents a half-grown specimen, Q. 
 tmniolata, Anth. 

246. G. harpa, Lea. Figs. 337, 338. Conical, rather 
 thick, striate; spire elevated conical, suture somewhat im- 
 pressed; whorls 6, somewhat convex ; aperture small, ellipti- 
 cal, angular at base. Horn color. Tuscaloosa, Ala. 

Fig. 338 represents O. textilosa, Anth., a half-grown specimen. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 119 

247. G. oliva, Lea. Elliptical, striate, solid ; spire rather 
 short, suture much impressed; whorls 6, convex; aperture 
 small, oval. Brown. N. Ala. 

Narrower and smaller than Iceta, resembling Jiarpa in form, but the aper- 
 ture is wider and more rounded below. 

248. G. proteus, Lea. Fig. 339. Subcylindrical, pupse- 
 form, thick, smooth ; spire elevated, suture impressed ; whorls 
 6, convex ; aperture small, ovate, well rounded at base. Yel- 
 lowish horn color. Tuscaloosa, Ala. 

249. G. grisea, Ayith. Fig. 339a. Ovate, smooth, thick; 
 spire elevated, suture well impressed ; whorls 7, convex, the 
 last obscurely ribbed. Dull gray, obscurely banded. Tennes- 
 see River, Ala. 

250. G. culta, Lea. Figs. 340, 341. Subfusiform, inflated, 
 rather thick, rugosely striate; spire obtuse, suture irregularly 
 very much impressed ; whorls 7, carinate above, the last bi- 
 angulate ; aperture wide, rhomboidal. Greenish-yellow, three 
 or four-banded. Coosa River^ Ala. 

Fig. 341 represents O. suavis, Lea. 

251. G. luteola, Lea. Subfusiform, obtusely conoidal, 
 somewhat thick, straw color ; spire conical, suture impressed ; 
 whorls 5, the last large, inflated, subangulated above, a little 
 striate below ; aperture large, subrhomboidal, obtusely angu- 
 late at base. Straw color. Coosa River, Ala. 

252. G. gravida, Anth. Fig. 344. Ovate, smooth, thick ; 
 spire conical, suture inoderate ; whorls 7 — 8, nearly flat, the 
 last large, inflated, subangulate in the middle; aperture oval, 
 a little angulated at base. Light brown, livid within. Ala. 

253. G. Germana, Anth. Fig. 345. Ovate, conical, 
 smooth, rather thin; spire conical, suture moderately im- 
 pressed ; whorls 6, flat, the last large and subangulate in the 
 middle; aperture large, rhombic, subangulate below. Ash 
 gray to dark brown, brownish within, with a white border. 
 Cahaioha River, Ala. 

This ditfers from gravida principally in the form of the aperture. 

254. G. variata, Lea. Fig. 346. Subfusiform, inflated, 
 smooth, somewhat thick ; spire short conical, suture well im- 
 pressed ; whorls 6, flattened above, the last very much inflated ; 
 aperture large, ovate. Yellowish or purplish, sometimes band- 
 ed. Coosa River ^ Ala. 

255. G. ovalis, Lea. Figs. 347—349. Ovate, solid, striate : 
 spire short conical, suture much impressed; whorls 6, well 
 rounded ; aperture oval, narrow. Yellow, banded, white with- 
 in. Coosa River, Ala. 

Not so broadly ovate nor so large as O. Iceta, Jay. Fig. 348 represents 0. 
 copiosa, Lea, and Fig. 349 Q. orbicula, Lea. 

120 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

256. G. virgulata, Lea. Figs. 350, 351. Ovate, thick, 

smooth ; spire short conical, suture much impressed ; whorls 7, 
 convex, the last large, inflated ; aperture diagonal, long, and 
 narrow, angular at base. Greenish -yellow, four-banded. Coosa 
 River ^ Ala. 

Fig. 351 represents O. glandarm, Lea, the adult. In the young shell the 
 spire, when present (Fig. 350J, is attenuate and sharp-pointed. 

257. G. clara, A7ith. . Fig. 352. Ovate, smooth, thick ; 
 spire conical, suture slightly impressed ; whorls 7, flat, the last 
 large, inflated ; aperture ovate, angulate at base. Yellow, with 
 four brown bands. Ala. 

258. G. inflata, ITald. Fig. 353. Ovate-conical, smooth, 
 thick; spire ccniica], suture moderately impressed; whorls 5, 
 flattened, the last inflated; aperture rhomboidal, angulate at 
 base. Brown or green, banded inside with red. Alabama 
 River. 

The above description does not correspond altogether with that of ger- 
 mana, Anth., but if the figure here given (which is copied from Reeve's 
 '' Conchologia Iconica," and represents a shell in Mus. AnthonyJ is inflata, 
 then the two are probably identical. 

259. G. fusiformis, Lea. Fig. 354. Fusiform, smooth, 
 rather thin ; spire short-conical, acute, suture linear ; whorls 6, 
 the last inflated ; aperture ovate, rounded below. Yellowish, 
 sometimes double-banded. Tenn. 

260. G. bellula. Lea. Fig. 355. Subfusiform, striate, 
 someahat thick ; spire short, suture well impressed ; whorls 5, 
 convex, the last large ; aperture rather large, elliptical, obtuse- 
 ly angular at base. Pale horn color, four-banded, white and 
 banded within. Ydlowleaf Qreek, Ala. 

261. G. calculoides, Lea. Fig. 356. Subfusiform, robust, 
 irregularly striate, and noduled above; spire obtusely conical, 
 suture irregularly impressed; whorls 6, much inflated, the last 
 large; aperture rather small, elliptical, angled at base, colu- 
 mella perpendicular, straight. Plorn color, with or without 
 bands. Coosa River, Ala. 

262. G. basalis, Xea. Elliptical, thick, smooth ; spire 
 short, obtuse, suture impressed ; whorls convex ; aperture 
 ovately elongate, acutel}' angular at base. Yellowish-green, 
 banded. Ala. 

Resembles 0. glandaria, Lea, but is thinner, the outer lip more expanded, 
 and the aperture rather longer. It is closely allied to O. fusiformis, Lea. 

263. G. Lewisii, Lea. Fig. 357. Somewhat cylindrical, 
 thick, coarsely striate; spire raised conical, suture much im- 
 pressed; whorls 6, flattened, with rough revolving ridges or 
 strioe ; aperture small, ovately rhomboidal, obtusely angular at 
 base. Dark green, four-banded Coosa and Tallapoosa Rivers, 
 Ala. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 121 

264. G. ellipsoides, Lea. Fig. 358. Elliptical, thick, 
 with two or three cord-like strias and a few impressed strite at 
 base ; spire elevated, convexly conical, suture irregularly im- 
 pressed ; whorls 7, slightly convex, the last large ; aperture 
 narrow, elongate-elliptical, columella nearly perpendicular. 
 Grreenish-yellow, banded. Coosa River, Ala. 

265. Gi elliptica, Lea. Fig. 359. Elliptical, smooth or 
 slightly striate ; spire obtuse, subpup^cform, slightly folded at 
 tip, suture impressed; whorls 6, flatly convex, the last large; 
 aperture large, elongate-elliptical, olotusely angular at base, 
 columella incurved. Yellowish, four-banded. Coosa River, 
 Ala. 

266. G. buUula, Lea. Fig. 360. Conical, truncate, smooth, 
 inflated, rather thin; spire raised, eroded, suture impressed; 
 whorls 5, inflated, the last rather large ; aperture large, wide- 
 ovate, obtusely angular at base. Yelloivleaf Creek, Ala. 

267. G. excavata, Anth. Fig. 361. Ovate-conic, smooth, 
 thick ; spire obtusely elevated, suture well impressed ; whorls 
 •i remaining, flattened, the last with a central concave excava- 
 tion, with its borders somewhat carinate ; aperture moderate, 
 ovate. Dark olivaceous, purple within. Ala. 

268. G. purpurea, Lea. Fig. 362. Subfusiform, smooth ; 
 rather thin ; spire obtusely conical, suture slightly impressed ; 
 whorls 5, sloping, flattened, the last large and subangulated on 
 the periphery ; aperture rhomboidal, angular at base. Dark, 
 brown, purple within. Ala. 

Very closely allied to excavata, Anth., and rara, Lea. 

269. G. quadrivittata, Lea. Fig. 363. Conical, smooth, 
 rather thick ; spire raised, conical, suture much impressed ; 
 whorls 8, flatly convex, the last subangular; aperture con- 
 stricted, ovately rhomboidal. Greenish-yellow, four-banded. 
 Coosa River, Ala. 

270. G. propria, Lm. Fig. 364. Fusiform, smooth, rather 
 thick ; spire raised, conical, suture impressed; whorls 6, slightly 
 convex ; aperture ovate, wide at base. Yellowish-olive, four- 
 banded. Ala. 

271. G. negata. Lea. Fig. 365. Elliptical, subcorneal, 
 thick, closely and regularly corded with striae ; spire conical, 
 suture well impressed ; whorls 6, slightly convex, the last 
 large ; aperture ovate, broad below. Yellowish, four-banded. 
 Coosa River, Ala. 

272. G. impressa, Lea. Fig. 366. Fusiform, moderately 
 thick, closely and sharply transversely sulcate; spire obtuse, 
 suture well impressed ; whorls 6, slightly convex ; aperture 
 large, oval, angular at base. Reddish or yellowish-brown. 
 Coosa River, Ala. 

Well distinguished by its large size and singular sharp stria. In size and 
 form it much resembles G. laeta, Jay. 

122 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

273. G. pergrata, Lea. Fig. 367. Subcylindrical, some- 
 what thick; spire obtusely conical, suture much impressed; 
 whorls 6, slightly round-shouldered above, with faint, close, 
 impressed, revolving strias ; aperture large, subrhomboidal, 
 columella arcuate. Greenish horn color. Coosa River, Ala. 

Only a single specimen has been obtained, and it is questionable whether 
 it is more than a poor example of a half-grown impresaa. 

274. G. capillaris, Lea. Fig. 868. Cylindrical, thick, 
 very closely striate, with small, sharp ridges ; spire obtuse, 
 suture irregularly impressed; whorls slightly convex; aperture 
 large, widely elliptical, obtusely angulate at base. Yellowish 
 brown. Coosa Biver, Ala. 

Differs from G. impressa by being smaller and more nairow and cylin- 
 drical. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 
 GONIOBASIS, Lea. 

123 

Fig. 298. Fig. 299, Fig. 300. Fig. 301. Fig. 303. Fig. 304. 

Fig. 305. Fig. 306. Fig. 307. Fig. 308. Fig. 309. Fig. 310. 

Fig. 311. Fig. 312. Fig. 313. Fig. 314. Fig. 315. Fig. 316. 

Fig. 317. Fig. 318. Fig. 319. Fig. 320. Fig. 321. 

3 

Fig. 322 

Fig. 324. Fig. 325. 

124 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

GONIOBASIS, Lea. 

Fig. 326. 

Fig. 327. 

Fig. 328. 

Fig. 329. 

Fig. 330. Fig. 333. Fig. 331. Fig. 332. Fig. 334. 

Fig. 335. Fig. 336. Fig. 337. Fig. 338. Fig. 339. 

Fig. 339a. Fig. 340. Fig. 341. Fig. 344. Fig. 345. Fig. 346. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 

125 

GONIOBASIS, Lea. 

Fig. 347. Fig. 348. Fig. 349. Fig. 350. Fig. 351. Fig. 3.5-.^ 

Fig. 353. Fig. 354. Fig. 3^5. Fig. 3.56. Fig. 357- Fi,'. 358. 

Fig. 359. Fig. 3(0. Fig. 3(;i. Fig. 362. Fig. 363. Fig. 364. 

Fig. 365, Fig. 360. 

Fig. 36 < 

Fig. 368. 

126 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

ANCULOSA, Say. 

1. Plicate Species. 

2. A. plicata, Con. Figs. 1 — 4. Suboval, moderately 
 tliick ; spire short-conical, suture moderately impressed ; body 
 whorl slightly convex, with revolving ribs around the upper 
 part, more or less interrupted by, or altogether separated into 
 crenulations ; aperture rounded elliptical. Green, with or 
 without bands. Term. River, N. Ala. 

Fig. 4 represents iubcrculata, Lea, Black Warrior River, Ala. 

2. Suhate Species. 

8. A. Showalterii, Lea. Fig. 5. Suborbicular, thick; 
 spire scarcely raised, suture well impressed ; body whorl in- 
 flated, encircled throughout by several heavy revolving ribs, 
 causing corresponding grooves within the aperture ; aperture 
 large, suboval, the lip crenulate. Very dark brown. Coosa 
 River. A la. 

4. A. canalifera, Anth. Figs. 6, 7. Ovate, thin; spire 
 conical, suture slightly impressed ; whorls 5, the last large, 
 inflated, with several carinate revolving lines ; aperture large, 
 oval. Brown or olive. Dan River, N. G. 
 Is possibly the young of ^. corpulenta, Anth. 

6. A. COStata, Anth. Figs. 8, 9. Subglobose, thin; spire 
 small, short conic ; body whorl ventricose, with three to five 
 narrow equidistant revolving cost;© ; aperture subrotund. Oli- 
 vaceous, white or purplish within. Ohio River. 

7. A. rubiginosa,, Lea. Figs. 10 — 18. Ovately gibbous, 
 thick, smooth, or more or less covered with revolving ridges 
 or strice ; spire obtusely elevated, suture slightly impressed ; 
 body whorl somewhat constricted above; aperture small, with 
 a heavy deposit of nacre on the labium. Greenish or reddish, 
 banded, generally purple within. Black Warrior and Coosa 
 Rivers, Ala. 

8. A. dissimilis, Say. Figs. 19 — 56. Ovate conic, thin f 
 whorls 3 or 4, with a slight suture ; body whorl large, sub- 
 carinate in the middle, and occasionally with revolving carinte 
 above or below it ; aperture broadly ovate, sometimes with a 
 tooth upon the columella. Yellowish or greenish, not banded, 
 white within. Susquehanna River, Penn., Neiv York, Mary- 
 land, Virginia from James River to Shenandoah River. 

A very abundant and variable species ; separated from Anculosa as a sub- 
 genus Nitocria by H. and A. Adams, and as Mudalia by Haldeman, but it 
 does not appear to possess any permanent distinctive characters. Figs. 19 
 — 28 represent young and old specimens of the typical shell, with the carinas 
 more or less developed. Fig. 29 is a copy of the figure of DeKay's A- cari- 
 nata from Lake Champlain. Figs. 30 — 32 are transitional to figs. 33 — 36, 
 representing carinata. Lea, a form inhabiting sparingly the Potomac River 

OF CONCnOLOQY. 127 

at Washington, and more abundantly the Eoanoke River and Shenandoah 
 River. Figs. 37 — 41 represent vnritMlis, Lea, another form having the 
 same distribution as the last. Fig. 42 is tricittata, DeKay, being the same 
 form, rarely banded, from Lake Champlain. 

The transition from a smooth to a toothed columella is represented by 
 figures 43 — 49, exhibiting forms of titgrcscenn, Conrad. A. monodontoides. 
 Con. ffigs. 50 — 53), ^1. dentatua^ Couthouy ("figs. 54, 55), and A. affinis^ 
 Hald. (fig. 56), are all forms having the toothed columella. The habitat of 
 the latter is most probably erroneously given as Ohio. 

9. A dilatata, Con. Figs. 57 — 78. Subovate, moderately 
 thick; spire conical, somewhat elevated, suture well impressed; 
 whorls 4 — 5, the last large, inflated, generally smooth, some- 
 times angulated in the middle, or with several angles, or 
 closely covered by revolving ribs; aperture large, round- 
 ovate, dilated at the base, and produced towards the left, co- 
 lumella straight, occasionally toothed. Light brown to bright 
 or dark green. Rivers of Western Virginia tributary to the 
 Ohio River. 

Another protean species, replacing dissimilis^ Say, from which it is con- 
 stantly distinguished by the peculiar form of the base of the aperture. 

Figs. 57 — 59 represent the typical shell. Fig. 60 is a young banded spe- 
 cimen, with a toothed columella, the type of A. Bogersii, Con. Fig. 61 is 
 carinatus, Anth., and 63 and 63 Kirtlandianux^ Anth. 

Fig. 64 represents inflata, Lea, seemingly very distinct, but connected 
 with the type form by insensible gradations ; and fig. 65 is A. littorina 
 Hald. 

The following represent Haldeman'a "Varieties:" Figs. 66, 67, glauca, 
 fig. 68, solidula, fig. 69, sinuata, fig. 70, striata, fig. 71, rapmformis. The 
 balance of the figures illustrate a series of specimens, many of which some- 
 what resemble dissimilis. 

As this species becomes old, the base of the aperture sometimes thickens, 
 and loses its dilated angle, so as to appear, when thus abraded, to be 
 broadly rounded below. 

10. A. corpulenta, Anth. Fig. 79. Broad-ovate, smooth, 
 thick ; spire conical, suture slightly impressed ; whorls 5 — 6, 
 flattened, the last very large, inflated, subangular on the peri- 
 phery j aperture large, ovate, broadly rounded below, colu- 
 mella incurved. Dark brown, sometimes banded within N 
 Car. 

A larger, more ponderous species than diisimilis. But it may he only a 
 variety of that shell. Occasionally one or more additional angles on the 
 body whorl are visible, and, as previously mentioned, I suspect that A. 
 canalifera is the juvenile form, with the angles better developed. 

11. A. melanoides, Con. Figs. 80— 82. Conical, thick ; 
 spire short conical, suture moderately impressed ; whorls 4 
 flattened, the last large ; aperture elliptical, angular at base, 
 about half the length of the shell. Light green, obscurely 
 banded. N. Ala. 

Fig. 82 represents the adult, A. turgida, Hald. 

12. A. trilineata, Sxy. Figs. 83—85. Subglobose, rather 
 thin ; spire short, apex sharp, suture well impressed ; whorls 
 4, rounded, the last large ; aperture round. Yellowish-brown, 
 with generally three dark-brown revolving bands. Ohio Riv. 

Fig. 85 is A. viridis, Lea, an adult shell without bands. 

128 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

IB. A. subglobosa, Say. Figs. 86—96. Smooth, sub- 
 globose, or bell-shaped, very thick ; spire short, suture well 
 impressed; whorls 5, the last very large, impressly flattened 
 around the upper part ; aperture ovate, rounded below, colu- 
 mella incurved, much thickened. W. Virg., Tenn.^ JSf. Ala., 
 K Geo. 

Figs. 86—88, typical. Greenish or yellowish-brown, brown "within. 

Fig. 89, globula, Lea. A young double-banded specimen. 

Figs. 90—92, gibbosa, Lea. A variety without bands. 

Figs. 93 — 95, tinti?i)iabulum, Lea, including those specimens most in- 
 clined towards a campanulate form. Generally doubly-banded, or the 
 bands broken up into maculations, frequently purple within. 

Fig. 96, virgata, Lea. The young of the campanulate form. 

14. A. prserosa, Say. Figs. 97 — 100. Oval or sub- 
 globose, moderately thick ; spire very short, eroded, suture 
 irregularly impressed ; whorls 4 or 5, the last very large, in- 
 flated, subglobose almost the entire size of the shell, a little 
 flattened around the superior part ; aperture ovate or pyriform, 
 the lips very thick. Greenish or brown, with purple bands 
 or maculations, purple within. Oliio River io N. A la. 

Fig. 99 is A. angulata, Con., a half-grown shell from Flint River, Ala., 
 and Fig. 100 represents the quite young, Mel. Cincinnaiiensis, Lea, from 
 the Ohio River. 

16. A. tgeniata, Con. Figs. 101 — 103. Oval or oblong, 
 thick, smooth ; spire eroded, suture irregularly impressed ; 
 body whorl subconical, flattened around the upper part ; aper- 
 ture small, ovate, lips remarkably thickened. Greenish or 
 brownish, generally with four equidistant purple bands, aper- 
 ture generally tinged with purple within. N. Ala. 

This is a longer, narrower species than A. prcerosa; the colors are also 
 more vivid, the aperture smaller, and the lips thicker. The half-grown 
 sliell is A. Goosaensis, Lea (Fig. 103). 

17. A. Troostiana, Lea. Fig. 104. Ovate, thick, smooth ; 
 spire short, suture well impressed ; body whorl thick, slopingly 
 convex; aperture small, widely oval, well rounded below. 
 Very dark brown, almost black, bluish within. 7hnn. 

More ponderous and darker-colored than subglobosa, and having a more 
 elevated spire. 

18. A. pinguis, Lea. Fig. 105. Subrotund, smooth, in- 
 flated, rather thick ; spire very obtusely conical, suture well 
 impressed; whorls 4, the last yery large, slightly convex, an- 
 gulated in the middle ; aperture very large, widely oval. Dark 
 brown, without bands, white or purple within. Lebanon, Tenn, 

20. A. contorta, Lea. Fig. 106. Ovate, smooth, thick ; 
 spire elevated, suture very deeply impressed ; whorls very 
 convex, the last large, oval ; aperture small, nearly round, 
 columella much thickened and very much curved. Yellowish 
 horn color, Coosa River, Ala. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 129 

21. A. vittata, Xea. Fig, 107. Subglobose, smooth, tliick ; 
 spire obtuse, suture well impressed; whorls 4, inflated, the 
 last very large and very convex ; aperture small, nearly round, 
 columella much incurved. Yellowish, with several bands, 
 tinged with purple within. Coosa River, Ala. 

22. A. planospira, Anth. Fig. 108. Ovate or obovate, 
 smooth, thick ; spire nearly flat, suture slightly impressed ; 
 whorls 4, perfectly plane above, the last very large, obovate, 
 somewhat round-shouldered ; aperture rather long, narrow, 
 columella somewhat thickened. Light brown, with four bands. 
 Kentucky, Tenn. 

23. A. ampla, Anth. Figs. 109 — 114. Ovate-globose, 
 thick ; spire very short, eroded generally to a plane with the 
 body whorl, suture well impressed ; body whorl large, regu- 
 larly convex ; aperture large, oval, well rounded below. Light 
 yellowish-brown or greenish, sometimes impressly striate, 
 banded or maculate; white, vividly banded within. Coosa 
 River, Ala. 

Figs. 109 — 111 exhibit the types, Fig. 112 is elegam, Anth., and Figs. 
 110, 114 are formosa, Lea. The latter is impressly striate. 

24. A. zebra, Anth. Fig. 115. Oval, smooth, rather thick; 
 spire obtuse, not prominent, suture well impressed ; whorls 4, 
 convex, the last regularly oval ; aperture oval, rather long. 
 Yellowish, with longitudinal or diagonal zig-zag markings of 
 very dark brown or reddish, bluish- white within. Ala. 

25. A. pic ta, Con. Figs. 116 — 119. Eounded-ovate, rather 
 thick, smooth; spire entirely eroded, suture irregularly im- 
 pressed ; body whorl somewhat slopingly compressed above ; 
 aperture large, oval, broadly rounded below. Bright yellow, 
 with maculations either transversely disposed in bands or 
 diagonal zig-zag markings. 

Fig. 118 is Foremani, Lea, and Fig. 119 flammata, Lea. This species is 
 distinguished from zebra, Anth., by the superior portion of the whorls 
 being slopingly flattened. 

26. A. ornata, Anth. Fig. 120. Convex-conic, smooth, 
 moderately thick ; spire elevated, suture well impressed ; 
 whorls 5, convex, the last moderate in size, regularly rounded ; 
 aperture small, oval, well rounded below. Dark yellow, pol- 
 ished, witb three very distinct brown bands. N. Caroliria. 

27. A. Lewisii, Lea. Fig. 121. Elliptical, smooth, rather 
 thick ; spire obtuse, not advanced above the general curve of 
 the body -whorl, suture scarcely impressed; whorls 5, the last 
 large, oval; aperture long, narrow, ovate. Yellowish horn 
 color, not banded, whitish within. Tenii. 

130 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

28. A. sqiialida, Lea. Fig. 122, Subglobose, smooth, 
 very thick ; spire obtuse, suture moderately impressed ; whorls 
 4 — 5, convex, the last large, a little shouldered above ; aperture 
 large, wide, lips extraordinarily thickened. Brownish, banded. 
 Tuscaloosa^ Ala. 

Very globose, and not unlike ampla in form, but much heavier in texture. 

29. A. patula, Anth. Fig. 123. Ovate, rather thin, smooth; 
 spire small, elevated, suture well impressed ; whorls 4 — 5, con- 
 vex, the last inflated ; aperture large, semicircular, columella 
 only slightly incurved. Dark horn color, pink within. Tenn. 

30. A. viridula, Anth. Fig. 124. Ovate, smooth, rather 
 thin ; spire elevated, suture well impressed ; whorls 4 — 5, con- 
 vex; aperture ovate, large, columella well incurved, with a 
 broad sinus below. Dark green, livid within. Tenn. 

Variety of dilatata, Conrad ? 

32. A. ligata, ^w^/i. Fig. 125. Long-ovate, smooth, rather 
 thick ; spire obtusely elevated, suture well impressed ; body 
 whorl very long, impressly flattened or somewhat constricted 
 above ; aperture small, ovate, well rounded below, columella 
 deeply indented. Dark green, two or three-banded without 
 and within. Coosa River, Ala. 

Narrower and more constricted than tcejiiata, Con. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 

131 

ANCULOSA, Say. 

Fig. 1. Fig. 2. Fig. 3. Fig. 4. Fig. 5. Fig. G. Fig. 7. 

Fig. 8. Fig. 9. Fig. 10. Fig. 11. Fig. 13. Fig. 13. Fig. 14. 

Fig. 15. Fig. 16. Fig. 17. Fig. 18. Fig. 19. Fig. 20, Fig. 21. 


Fig. 22. Fig. 23. Fig. 24. Fig. 25. Fig. 26. Fig. 27. Fig. 28. 

Fig. 29. Fig. 30. Fig. 31. Fig. 32. Fig. 33. Fig. 34. Fig. 35. 

Fig. 36. Fig. 37. Fig. 38. Fig. 39. Fig. 40. Fig 41. 

132 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

ANCULOSA, Say. 

Fig. 43. Fig. 43. Fig. 44. Fig. 45. Fig. 46. Fig. 47. Fig. 48. Fig. 49. 

i # ^m % 

Tig. 50. Fig. 51. Fig. 52. Fig. 53. Fig. 54. Fig. 55. Fig. 56. Fig. 57- 

Fig. 58. Fig, 59. Fig. CO. Fig. 61. Fig. 63. Fig. 63. Fig. 64. 

^ 

Fig. 65. Fig. 66. Fig. 67. Fig. 08. Fig. 69. Fig. 70. Fig. 71. 

Fig. 73. Fig. 73. Fig. 74. Fig. 75. Fig. 76. Fig. 77. Fig, 78. 

OF coNcnoLoor. 
 ANCULOSA, Say. 

133 

Fig. 79. ' Fig. 87. Fig. 88. Fig. 90. Fig. 91. Fig. 93. 

^ #^% 

Fig. 80. Fig. 81. Fig. 82. Fig. 83. Fig. 84. Fig. 85. Fig. 86- Fig. 89. 

Fig. 93. Fig. 94. Fig. 97. Fig. 98. Fig. 99. Fig. 101. 

^^^ 

Fig. 95. Fig. 96. Fig. 100. Fig. 103. Fig. 104. Fig. 106. Fig. 107- 

Fig. 102. Fig. 105. Fig. 108. Fig. 109. Fig. 112. Fig. 113. Fig. IIG. 

Fig. 110. Fig. 111. Fig. 114. Fig. 115. Fig. 119. Fig. 130. Fig. 125. 

Fig. 117. Fig. 118. Fig. 121. Fig. 122. Fig. 133. Fig. 134. 

134 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

NOTE ON THE LINGUAL DENTITION OF THE 
 STREPOMATID^. 

BY GEORGE AV. TRYON, JR. 

As lingual dentition has been adopted as a very important 
 character (somewhat hastily, I think) in the classification of 
 'the MoUusca, it raay be well to ascertain how far it may be 
 corroborative with other differences in the genera of North 
 American Strepomatidse. Troschel, in his magnificent work 
 " Das Gebiss der Schnecken," divides the Melanians into seve- 
 ral groups, of which the following contain American species : 

Ancyloti. The peculiarity of the dentition of the forms 
 belonging to this group is that the Ehachidian tooth is 
 broader than long, rounded behind, and swollen out before 
 {ausgehuchtet). The Laterals have a rhombic form, with the 
 outer posterior angle somewhat drawn out, and the inner 
 Uncini always possess a smaller quantity of denticulations 
 than the outer ones. The jaw exhibits numerous small scales, 
 which appear of a polygonal, mostly hexagonal form. 

In this group are included Ancy lotus, Melania depygis {Oo- 
 niobasis), Gyrotoma, and lo. 

We copy the figures given by Troschel : — 

It will be noticed, by an inspection of these figures, that the 
 differences in the form of the dentition are so slight as to be 
 of no value for the purpose of separating the genera. Indeed, 
 Troschel acknowledges that he can find no difterence of sufii- 
 cient importance for the separation of Melania depygis, or of 
 Gyrotoma,'^ from Ancylotus. 

* He ciu-ioiisly regrets that the nearly-allied genus ScMzostoma, Lea, is 
 unknown to him! 

OF CONOHOLOQY. 135 

PachycJdli. There is in this group also a marked distinct- 
 ness of form. As we have excluded this genus from the 
 family Strepomatidse on considerations entirely conchological, 
 it is very interesting to find in the dentition dift'ereuces quite 
 as marked as those existing in the shell. To show the very 
 peculiar form of the Rhachidian tooth, we copy from Troschel 
 the following for comparison : — 

Pachychilus Isevissimus. See plate 12, fig, 3. 
 " Schiedeanus. " 11, " 4. 

It is curious, however, and shows how little dependence can 
 be placed on any one character in the grouping of Mollusca, 
 to find Pirena and Melanopsis placed by this author together 
 with Pachychilus^ on account of their almost identical denti- 
 tion, when they differ so much in conchological characters and 
 in geographical distribution. 

Dr. VYilliam Stimpson, nearly two years since, published a 
 paper in the American Journal of Science and Arts, " On the 
 Structural Characters of the so-called Melanians of North 
 America," containing the results of observations of the ani- 
 mals of several of our species, including an /o, Anculosa, and 
 Ooniohasis. The individuals of these three very distinct 
 genera were not found to differ one from another in any struc- 
 tural character, although readily distinguished from Oriental 
 species. We will state the differences in their relative im- 
 portance as they appear to us. 1st. By being oviparous, 
 while the latter are ovo-viviparous. 2d. By the mantle mar- 
 gin being plain in the American, and fringed in the exotic 
 family. 3d. By difference in dentition. To these may be 
 added a sufficient conchological difference to justify the sepa- 
 ration into two families, even if the soft parts were undistin- . 
 guishable. 

136 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

REMARKS ON THE ORIGIN AND DISTRIBUTION OP 

THE OPERCULATED LAND SHELLS WHICH 

INHABIT THE CONTINENT OF AMERICA 

AND THE WEST INDIES. 

(Continned from p. 58.) 
 BY THOMAS BLAND. 

Before discussing in detail tlie relations of the "West Indian 
 Islands inter se, and with the adjacent Continent, as shown by 
 the distribution of operculated and also inoperculated land 
 shells, I desire to explain the difference in the character and 
 extent of the distribution of the two classes. 

That difference is not, it appears, peculiar to the region 
 under consideration, inasmuch as fully two-thirds of all the 
 known operculated species are peculiar to Islands, while more 
 than one-half of the inoperculated are peculiar to Continents. 

The facts with reference to the distribution of genera and 
 species in America and the West Indies are as follows : — 

American Continent. West Indies. 

Operculated genera, 14 22 

" species, 151 603 

2 genera (3 species) peculiar to the Continent. 
 10 " (215 " ) " " Islands. 

12 " common, with 149 species on the Continent and 
 388 on the Islands. 

American Continent. West Indies. 

Inoperculated genera, 23 18 

species, 1251* 737 

5 genera (15 species) peculiar to the Continent. 
 1 genus (If " ) " " Islands. 

17 genera common, with 1236 species on the Continent and 
 736 on the Islands. 

* The number of inoperculated continental species is rather approximate 
 than absolutely correct. For general purposes, I use the classification of 
 the Helicea adopted by Pfeiffer in his Monograph, but in a subsequent part 
 of this paper I shall refer to the sub-genera of Ilellv, Bulimus, Sj-c. 

t Ennea Mcolor, Gould, found in St. Thomas and Trinidad; also in the 
 East Indies. The genus belongs to Africa. 

OP OONOHOLOOY. ]3T 

The majority of the genera of operculates common to the 
 Continent and Islands have the greater number of species on 
 the Islands, while the reverse is the case with the majority of 
 such genera of inoperculates. It is noticeable, also, that spe- 
 cies of such former genera (speaking generally) attain larger 
 size on the Islands — in Helicinacea, for example — and of the 
 latter on the Continent, especially in Helix^ Bulimus, Oleacina, 
 and Gylindrella. 

Looking at the distribution of species in America and the 
 West Indies, and considering each genus as having had its 
 origin where the greatest number of its species is found, (on 
 the Continent or Islands), the following is the result : — 

It would appear that insular conditions have been more 
 favorable to the increase both of genera and species of oper- 
 culates, or it may be said to variation, and continental condi- 
 tions to inoperculates. 

The species of both classes common to the Continent and 
 Islands (4 operculated and 36 inoperculated) are, with few 
 exceptions, of West Indian rather than American forms. The 
 number of operculated species found in more than one island 
 is 18, but of inoperculates 55, the latter having, on the whole, 
 a wider insular distribution than the former. 

Considering the distribution of genera and species both of 
 operculates and inoperculates in the West Indian Islands, the 
 character of the species common to them and the Continent of 
 America, and found in more than one Island, the West Indies, 
 although, in one sense, a single zoological province, may be 
 divided into five sub-provinces, viz : — 

1. Cuba, with the Isle of Pines, the Bahamas, and Bermudas. 

2. Jamaica. 

3. Haiti. 

4. Porto Eico, with Yieque and the Virgin Islands, also in- 
 cluding Anguilla, St. Martin, and St. Bartholomew. 

5. Guadaloupe and Martinique, with Barbuda and the is- 
 lands between it and them, and to the south, to and inclusive 
 of Trinidad. 

138 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

In the last number of this Journal (pp. .54-58) I stated the 
 origin of the Families and Sub-families of operculated Shells, 
 showing, from the distribution of species, the extent of African, 
 Asiatic, and West Indian influences in the Islands generally, 
 and in diiferent parts of the Continent. 

The following table explains how those influences, estimated 
 from similar data, are manifested in the different West Indian 
 sub-provinces. 

As might be expected from the result on the Continent, it 
 appears that the Asiatic influence has its maximum, and the 
 West Indian its minimum, in the group of islands (Guade- 
 loupe, &c.) which is nearest to, and, as I shall show, has most 
 relationship with South America.* 

There is another view, however, which deserves notice, of 
 the relationship of the operculated shell faunas of the Continent 
 and Islands, derived from the distribution of genera in con- 
 nection with the question of origin of the Families and Sub- 
 families. 

In the analyses in the preceding part of this paper (p. 57), 
 I dealt with the operculated shells generally, but the distribu- 
 tion of genera and species belonging to the three Families is, 
 in reality, very different. 

Aciculacea. Omitting TruncateUa (the distribution of which 
 in the Islands is imperfectly known), the other two genera, 
 Geomelania and Chittya, are not only West Indian, but pecu- 
 liar to Jamaica. 

Gyclostomacea. Of the QQ Continental species, 42 belong to 
 sub families of Asiatic, 1 of African, and 23 of West Indian 
 origin, which species are distributed as follows : — 

Origin. No. of Sp. in N. Am. Mexico. C. Amer. S. Amer. 

African, 1 

Asiatic, 5 9 28 

West Indian, 1 4 11 7 

The distribution in the insular sub-provinces is as follows: — 

Origin. No. of Sp. in Cuba, &c. Jamaica. Haiti. Porto Rico, Guade- 

&c. loupe, <S-c. 

African, 10 31 8 2 3 

Asiatic, 15 34 3 3 9 

West Indian, 123 29 26 14 3 

Helicinacea. This Family is of West Indian origin. 

* In connection with the distribution of operculated shells, the term 
 South America refers' especially to the intertropical parts of the Southern 
 Continent. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 139 

I may here incidentally remark that the animals of Cyclotus, 
 Cyclo'pJioms, and Megalomastoma, three of the five genera of 
 the Family Gyclostomacea of Asiatic origin, represented in 
 America and the West Indies, have a buccal plate in addition 
 to the lingual membrane, (as to Bourciera and Hydrocena I 
 am not informed*), while in Cyclostom.us and Tudora of Afri- 
 can, and, I believe, in the genera of West Indian oi'igin, the 
 buccal plate is wanting.f 

Before describing the more remarkable features of the dis- 
 tribution of operculat^d shells in the West Indian sub-prc- 
 vinces, I may observe that a statement of the number alone of 
 genera represented in different parts of the American Conti- 
 nent and in the West Indies is comparatively of little value. 
 The annexed table gives the names of the genera, with the 
 number of species in each sub-province. The mark * indicates 
 that the genus is not represented on the Continent, and f that 
 the continental species do not exceed three in number. Gy- 
 clophorus and Schasicheila are the only genera with more 
 numerous continental than insular species, while Bourciera 
 and Hydrocena are exclusively continental. 

Seeing that four operculated species only are common to 
 the Continent and the Islands, the extraordinary fact appears 
 that the West Indian Islands have nearly 600 peculiar species 
 of operculated land shells. 

St. Croix (Porto Rico group) is the only island in which, so 
 far as I have ascertained, evidence has been discovered of 
 extinct operculated species. Gyclostoma hasicarinatum and G. 
 chordiferum, found with other sub-fossil species {Helix, Buli- 
 mus, and Pupa), have been described by Pfeiffbr. 

* Since putting this in the printer's hands, Prof. Theo. Gill has called 
 my attention to the fact, that Bourciera has been placed by Troschel 
 among the genera of Helicinacea, with which it essentially agrees in denti- 
 tion, while Hydrocena has been taken as the type of a pecuhar family also 
 related to Helicinacea, in which the buccal plate is absent. 

t See my paper "On the Buccal Plate in Certain Genera of the Family 
 Gyclostomacea," Amer. Jour, of Conch., i. 45, in which I refer to Troschel 
 " Gebiss der Schnecken," part i., 1856. ' 

140 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 141 

1. Cuha, the Isle of Pines, the Bahamas, ayid Bermudas. 

There is no operculated genus peculiar to this group, except- 
 ing Diplopoma, of which the only species is in Cuba. The 
 single insular representative of the Mexican genus Schasicheila 
 is in New Providence. Two Cuban species only are found on 
 the Continent, Ghondropoma dentatum. Say, and Helicina sub- 
 glohulosa, Poey, both also in Florida or the adjacent keys. 

The known species of Truncatella, having strictly terrestrial 
 habits, placed by Pfeifter in the section Montanse, as distin- 
 guished from Littorales, are peculiar to Cuba and Jamaica. 

Exclusive of Trxmcatella, there is no operculated species 
 common to this and any other of the sub-provinces, excepting 
 Helicina rugosa, Pf., found also in Haiti. Meyalomastoma 
 procer, Poey, and Ghondropoma dissolutu7n, Pf., are in Cuba 
 and the Isle of Pines. 

The absence of Geomelania and Ghittya, and of Stoastoma 
 and Lucidella (all unrepresented on the Continent), with the 
 great development o^ Me gal oma stoma, Ghoanopoma, Gtenopoma, 
 Gistula, Gho7idro2)oma, Trochatella, and Selicina, as compared 
 with other sub-provinces, is remarkable. 

The foramen in the superior margin of, and within the aper- 
 ture of many species of Ghoanopoma, Gtenopoma, Tudora, Gis- 
 tula, and Ghondropjoma, and the tubercle, especially in Gteno- 
 poma, belonging to this sub-province, are local peculiarities 
 not found, even in species of the same genera, in any other 
 island. (Poey, Memorias, ii. 40.) 

2. Jamaica. — The operculated genera peculiar to this sub- 
 province are Geomelania and Ghittya, and Jamaicea. Stoastoma 
 with 80 species, represented in Haiti and Porto Eico by one 
 species in each, and Lucidella, with one only in Haiti, may 
 almost likewise be termed peculiar. There is no species com- 
 mon to Jamaica and the Continent, and one only found in 
 another island, viz., Gistula luguhris, Pf., which inhabits An- 
 guilla, in the Porto Eico sub-province. Megalomastoma and 
 Ghondropoma, both having species on the Continent, and Li- 
 cina, three genera represented in Cuba and Haiti, and the two 
 first in Porto Eico, are not found in Jamaica, while of Gyclotus, 
 which is South American as regards the Continent, it has 3-i 
 of the 41 insular species. In Jamaica there are 5 genera not 
 represented in Cuba, while in the latter there are 4 not in the 
 former. In every point of view, the operculated land shell 
 fauna of Jamaica appears to be the most varied and peculiar. 

3. Haiti. — This island has no peculiar operculated genus, 
 and no species common to it and the Continent. Helicina ru- 
 gosa, Pf , and Tudora pupieformis, Sowb., are alone found in 
 any other sub-province — the one in Cuba and the other in 
 Anguilla. Having representatives of Megalomastoma^ Licina, 

142 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

and Chondropoma (absent in Jamaica), Haiti has more relation- 
 ship with Cuba than with Jamaica ; but alliance with the latter 
 is shown by 1 species of Stoastomu and 1 of Lucidella^ genera 
 not present in Cuba, I should remark that the land shell 
 fauna of Haiti has been investigated less than those of the 
 neighboring islands, and that further research is much to be 
 desired. It is probable that the islands of the Bahamas group, 
 nearer to Haiti than to Cuba, will, on close examination, be 
 found to have as much, if not more, relationship with the for- 
 mer than the latter * 

4. Porto Rico^ ivith Vieque and the Virgin Islands, including 
 also Anguilla, St. Martin^ and St. Bartholomew. — There is not 
 only no peculiar operculated genus in this group of islands, 
 but several of the genera represented in the three preceding 
 sub-provinces are wanting, viz., Gyclotus, Gtenopoma, Trocha- 
 tella, and Lucidella. This sub-province, having species of 
 Megaloniastoma and Chondropoma, genera not found in Jamai- 
 ca, has, on the whole, less alliance with that island than with 
 Cuba and Haiti. There is no species common to the Con- 
 tinent and this sub-province, but several species are widely 
 distributed in the islands comprised in it. All the species 
 which inhabit Vieque are found in Porto Eico, excepting Cho- 
 anopoma sulculosum, Fer., belonging also to St. Bartholomew. 
 Several species are common to Porto Eico, St. Thomas, and 
 St. John. The only species found in another sub-province is 
 Helicina fasciata. Lam., which is attributed to St. Kitts, Gua- 
 deloupe, and one or two other islands of the same group. 

5. Guadeloupje and Martinique, tvith Barhuda and the Islands 
 betiveeri it and them, and also Islands to the south^ to and inclu- 
 sive of Trinidad. There is no operculated genus absolutely 
 peculiar to this group of Islands, but Cyclop] torus, not found 
 in the other sub-provinces, has 2 species in Guadeloupe, and 
 4 in Martinique ; on the continent, there are 3 in Mexico, 3 
 in Central America, and 8 in South America. Cyclotus., with 
 16 of the 22 continental species in South America, and which 
 inhabits Cuba, Jamaica, and Haiti, but not Porto Eico, is re- 
 presented in Martinique, Grenada, and Trinidad. 

In this sub-province, Megalomastoma and all the genera of 
 the sub-family Licinea, excepting Choanopoma.^ which has 1 
 species only, are absent. On the Continent, Adamsiella alone 
 of that sub-family is represented, and by 2 species, 1 in Central 
 and the other in South America. The family Cychstomea, 
 which has 1 continental species (in Mexico), has 3 species in 
 this group of islands. The family Helicinacea is represented 

* I learn from my friend, Mr. D. Sargent, of Great Inagua, that seveial 
 years ago an alligator landed from a log of mahogany, and lived some time 
 on that island— a colonist, it was supposed, from Haiti. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 143 

only by species of Helicina. There are 2 species common to 
 the Continent and this sub-province — Gijdotus translucidus, 
 Sowb., of Venezuela and Trinidad, and Helicina Dysoni, Pf., 
 of that island and Honduras. Helicina fasciata^ Lam., as 
 already mentioned, is common to this and the Porto Eico sub- 
 province. 

This group of islands has unquestionably very marked 
 relationship with South America. 

In connection with this sub-province, I may observe that 
 the land shell fauna of Curagao, situated at no great distance 
 from the coast of Venezuela, is somewhat anomalous. 

The following 4 species are known from thence : Tudora 
 megacheila, P. and M., of a genus belonging especially to Ja- 
 maica, and with 1 continental (Mexican) species only, Helix 
 pentodon, Menke, more allied to S. tichostoma^ Pf., of Cuba 
 (judging from description), than to any other insular species. 

Bulimus elongatus, Bolt., distributed in several of the is- 
 lands embraced in the fourth and fifth sub-provinces, and also 
 found on the Continent, in Prench Guiana. 

Puim uva, Lam., of the sub-genus Strophia, which has one 
 continental species only {incana, By., of Florida), and whose 
 insulated distribution is confined to the first, third, and fourth 
 sub-provinces.* 

(To be continued.) 

* Albers (Die Heliceen, 1861) erroneously attributes S. ahearia, Dillw., 
 and *S'. uva to Guadeloupe. The former, with the var. ruMcunda, Menke, 
 belongs, I believe, to the Bahamas. 

144 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

DESCRIPTIONS OP NEW AMERICAN FRESH WATER 
 SHELLS. 

BY JOHN G. ANTHONY. 

1. Anodon McNielii, Anthony.— t. 6, f. 1. 

Description. — Shell smooth, elliptical, somewhat inflated, 
 rounded before and biangular behind ; substance of the shell 
 thin and diaphanous ; epidermis remarkably smooth and pol- 
 ished, of a pale yellowish-green color over the umbones, be- 
 coming darker and rougher on the posterior slope; beaks 
 prominent, rugose at tip, the Avrinkles occupying nearly the 
 entire surfece of the earliest growth; hinge margin slightly 
 curved, with ligament long and slender ; marks of growth dis- 
 tant and distinct, but not very broad, three only on each 
 valve; anterior and posterior cicatrices scarcely perceptible; 
 nacre silvery white and iridescent. 

Dimensions. — Diam. 1 inch, length 2 7-lOths inches, breadth 
 1| inches. 

Sahitat. — Michigan. 

Collection Mus. Comp. Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. 

Observations. — Without presenting any very prominent 
 characters, this shell seems perfectly distinct; its texture is 
 remarkably thin and diaphanous, and it has a strong but not 
 very sharp carina on the umbonial slope ; the basal edge is 
 curved upward behind, giving the shell rather a cuneate 
 appearance. 

2. Anodon subgibbosa, Anthony. — t. 6, f. 2. 

Description. — Shell smooth, inflated, subquadrate, inequi- 
 lateral, and very thin ; epidermis of a dull olive color and 
 without rays; marks of growth not distant but distinct, about 
 4 on each valve, indicated by a rather broad darker line; 
 beaks not very prominent, having coarse elevated rugie at tip ; 
 anterior slope rounded, posterior slope obscurely angulated and 
 somewhat excavated ; anterior and posterior cicatrices both 
 very indistinct ; nacre bluish in color, but somewhat iridescent. 

OF CONCHOLOGT. 145 

Dimensions. — Diameter 1 4-lOtlis inches, length 3 inches, 
 breadth 2 inches. 

Habitat. — Black Lake, Michigan. 

Collection Mus. Corap. Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. 

Observations. — Distinguished by its inflated character and 
 dull, dark olive color, in which it somewhat resembles Anod. 
 gibbosa, Say, but it is more equilateral, less inflated, less pon- 
 derous, and the epidermis has not the fine green rays and 
 general green color of that interesting species. The form of 
 the present species in every stage of its growth differs essen- 
 tially from Anod. gibbosa. The color of the epidermis is more 
 like that oi Anod. Couperiana, Lea, but in no other particular 
 does it resemble that species. 

3. Anodon inornata, Anthony. — t. 7, f. 1. 

Description. — Shell broadly elliptical, very inequilateral, 
 rounded before and sub-biangular behind ; substance of the 
 shell moderately thick; epidermis of a dull ochrey-yellow, 
 without rays, deepening into a light brown color on the pos- 
 terior slope ; beaks rather prominent, with prominent, elevated, 
 and waved wrinkles at tip ; anterior cicatrices distinct and 
 well defined, posterior cicatrices also distinct, but less deep 
 than the anterior ; marks of growth widely separated in the 
 earlier stages of growth, becoming more crowded near the basal 
 edge in old specimens ; nacre silvery and highly iridescent 
 particularly at the posterior end, tinged with salmon color 
 under the beaks. 

Dimensions. — Diam. IJ inches, length 3| inches, breadtb 
 2g^ inches. 

Habitat. — Michigan, Slawson's Lake. 

Collection of Mus. Comp. Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. 

Observations. — May be compared with Anod. opalinu^, Nob. 
 but is less inflated, less angular, is more elongate, and a thicker 
 and heavier shell ; with no other species would it be likely to 
 be confounded. Although the substance of this shell is quite 
 thick, it is, nevertheless, translucent and opalescent; the surface 
 is finely and delicately striate longitudinally and transversely, 
 and, under the microscope, presents an unusually beautiful 
 appearance. 

146. AMERICAN JOURNAL 

4. Unio opalinus, Anthony. — t. 7, f. 2. 

Description. — Subrhomboidal, somewhat inflated, rather 
 thick; lines of growth becoming varicose anteriorly; beaks 
 placed near to, and pointed towards, the anterior end of the 
 shell, with several doubly-curved undulations ; ligament mar- 
 gin straight and slightly declining, posterior slope and margin 
 sub-biangular, basal margin almost straight, anterior margin 
 somewhat rounded; epidermis light yellowish or greenish, 
 iridescent. Cardinal teeth small, lateral teeth long and straight ; 
 cavity of the shell moderate, of the beaks rather deep and 
 angular ; anterior cicatrices distinct, posterior cicatrices con- 
 fluent and indistinct, dorsal cicatrices in the cavity of the 
 beaks ; nacre pearly, very iridescent posteriorly. 

Dimensions. — Length If inches, breadth 1 inch, diameter J 
 inch. 

Locality. — Michigan, 

Collection Mus. Comp. Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. 

Observations. — Eesembles somewhat Unio Sayi, but is longer 
 in proportion to the breadth ; the beaks are placed nearer to 
 the anterior end, and the species is much smaller. It may 
 also be compared with Unio gibbosus, Barnes, which it cer- 
 tainly resembles in general form. It is, however, more bi- 
 angular behind ; the color is very different, being dark and 
 rayed in gibbosus; the latter is also a heavier species, the nacre 
 either salmon, purple, or white, very much thickened ante- 
 riorly, and the cavity of the beaks very shallow. The undu- 
 lations of the beaks are more decidedly marked and closer in 
 opalinus than in gibbosus. 

5. GoNiOBASis ciNGENDA, Anthony. — t. 7, f. 3. 

Description. — Shell conic, smooth, olivaceous; spire elevated, 
 but decollate, exhibiting but 5 whorls, having lost at least 3 
 which it should have had in a perfect condition ; whorls con- 
 vex, slightly ridged below the middle, immediately below 
 ■which a broad, dark brown band passes around the upper 
 whorls, becoming double but confluent on the penultimate, but 
 distinctly double and distant on the body whorl ; sutures deep 
 and sharply defined ; aperture ovate and bluish within ; colu- 
 mella deeply rounded, curved at the base, forming with the 
 outer lip a distinct but not deep sinus; lines of growth very 
 distinct and curved. 

Dimensions. — Length 1 2-lOths inches, diameter | inch, 
 length of aperture | inch, breadth 4-lOths inch. 

Habitat. — North Carolina. 

OP CONCHOLOQT. 14Y 

Collection Mus. Comp. Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. 

Observations. — May be compared with G. Virginica, Say, 
 which it resembles somewhat in form and coloring, but it is 
 altogether of a more solid texture and more robust ; it also has 
 a broader, darker, and more distinct band round the whorls ; 
 the whorls are also less convex and more angulated. I know 
 of no other shell with which it is likely to be confounded. 
 The lines of growth are well defined, and on the body whorl 
 become varicose. 

148 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

% 

REVIEWS 

I.— AMEEICAK 

Canadian Naturalist and Geologist. New Series, II., No. 5, Octo- 
 ber, 1865. 

Review of the Northern Buccinums, and Remarks on some 
 other Northern Marine Mollusks. Part 1. BY DR. WM. 
 STIMPSON. 

This very able memoir, by our esteemed contributor, in- 
 cludes detailed descriptions and distinctive characters of all 
 the American species, together with notes on their geographi- 
 cal distribution. We quote some portions of the paper, deem- 
 ing it of too important character to be passed over with an 
 ordinary notice. 

The author remarks, that, "Among the spiral grooves and 
 striae or ridges with which the shell is always more or less 
 deeply sculptured, two kinds may usually be distinguished, a 
 large and a small kind, those of the latter being by far the 
 more numerous, and distributed upon the surface of the others. 
 These kinds we shall call, for convenience, the primary and 
 secondary grooves, or ridges, as the case may be. The differ- 
 ence between them is very conspicuous in B. glaciate. The 
 columella has normally three folds, an upper, middle, and 
 lower one ; — the lower one constituting the oblique inferior 
 margin of the columella. These folds are not always distinct, 
 but all of them may be made out in B. tenue. The middle 
 fold is obsolete in most of the species, but is very prominent 
 and tooth-like in B. ciliatum.^^ 

OP CONCHOLOQY. 149 

"With one or two doubtful exceptions, tlie genus Buccinum 
 is restricted geographically to the temperate and frigid seas 
 of the Northern Hemisphere. More careful examination, both 
 of the shell and soft parts of the Antarctic species (such as 
 B. Antarcticum and B. Zealandicum) referred to the genus, is 
 required, before deciding upon their actual pertinence to it. 

" Geologically, the history of the genus commences in the 
 Pliocene formation. They are found in the European Ter- 
 tiary deposits of that age, even as far south as the shores of 
 the Mediterranean. They become very numerous in the Ple- 
 istocene deposits both of Europe and North America, but 
 reach their maximum development in the existing seas. 

"I have endeavored to include in the following review all 
 the species which certainly belong to the genus. As to the 
 B. Dalei of Sowerby, and the B. ovoides of Middendorflf, if we 
 may rely upon the accuracy of the observation of Mr. Alder, 
 on the lingual dentition of the former, as detailed in Forbes 
 & Hanley's 'British Mollusca,' Vol. IV., p. 284, these species 
 are not true Buccinimis. Mr. Alder says : — ' Its tongue differs 
 from that of Buccinum undatum, as well as from those of 
 the allied species of the genus Fusus, and makes a slight ap- 
 proach to that of Mangelia. It has a single plain and slightly 
 curved tooth on each side, and a very thin non-denticulated 
 plate in the centre.' This statement clearly indicates the ex- 
 istence of a distinct generic group, for which we would pro- 
 pose the name Liomesus, with Buccinum Dalei as the type. I 
 have specimens of L. ovoides from Behring's Straits." 

The species (15 in number) are described very fully, with 
 the synonymy very carefully worked out. "We have carefully 
 compared Dr. Stimpson's results with the original figures and 
 descriptions, as well as such specimens as we could examine, 
 and are very glad to corroborate his views in almost every 
 instance. There are other genera of shells represented on 
 our coast, that need the same careful study, and we trust, 
 therefore, that Dr. Stimpson will continue his investigations. 
 Two of the species are new : — 

B. plectrum, and B. Tottenii. 
 We have only space left for reproducing, with the addition 
 of the geographical distribution, a 

"Synoptic Table of the Species of Buccinum. 
 A. Body-whorl angulated or carinated 

a. Primary transverse ridges flat ; secondary ridges incon- 
 spicuous. 
 1. Shell thin; aperture not patulous ; outer lip not sinu- 
 ated. 

150 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

* "Whorls shouldered ; aperture broadest above. 

B. Polare, Icy Cape, Arctic Ocean north of Behring's 
 Straits. 
 ** Whorls scarcely shouldered ; aperture broadest be- 
 low. 
 JB. Groenlandicum, Davis' Straits, Fossil at Montreal. 
 2. Shell thick and strong; aperture patulous, outer lip 
 sinuated. 

* Shell elongated. 

B. Bonovani, New Foundland, Greenland ? 

** Shell ovate. 
 B. glaciale, Arctic Ocean, Greenland, Spitzbergen. 
 b. Primary transverse ridges convex; secondary grooves 
 very distinct. 
 B. angulosum, Behring's Straits, Icy Cape. 
 B. Body-whorl not angulated. 
 a. Aperture narrow. 

1. Primary ridges flat. 

B. striatum, Sea of Ochotsk. 

2. Primary ridges convex; a strong, tooth-like plait on 

the columella. 
 B. ciliatum., Behring's Straits to Greenland, South to Nova 
 Scotia. 
 h. Aperture broad. 

1. Longitudinal folds numerous, often interrupted, or in- 

terposed. 

* Primary ridges flat. 

B. plectrum, Behring's Straits, Fossil at Portland, Maine.* 
 * Variety ? If distinct, Dr. Stimpson proposes for it the name Bucci- 
 num Packardii. 

** Primary ridges obsolete; secondaries conspicuous, 
 crowded. 
 B. tenue, Arctic Ocean, South to Labrador. 

2. Longitudinal folds not interrupted or interposed. 

* Shell thick and coarsely striated. 

f Sinus of outer lip near the suture, columella short. 
 B. undulatum, Labrador to New Jersey. 

ft Sinus of outer lip near the middle, columella pro- 
 jecting. 
 B. undatum, Coast of Europe from Southern Norway to 
 Portugal. 

OF CONCHOLOGY, 151 

** Shell finely striated, usually thin. 

t Secondary ridges easily distinguished from the 
 primaries, which are often obsolete. 
 II Columella distinctly folded. 
 B. simplex, Ochotsk Sea. 

II II Columella smooth, not distinctly folded. 
 B. cyaneum, North Atlantic from Greenland to Norway 
 and Northward, 
 ft Secondary ridges confounded, for the most part, 
 with the primaries. 
 II Longitudinal folds conspicuous. 
 B. Totteni^ New Foundland, Fossil at Montreal. 

II I Longitudinal folds obsolete. 
 B. Ruviphreysianum, Northern Europe, Greenland, Arctic 
 Ocean, near McKenzie's River, Gulf of St. Law- 
 rence. 

The Canadian Naturalist and Geologist. New Series, II. No. 6. 
 December, 1865. 

Notes on some of the more Remarkahle Genera of Silurian 
 and Devo7iia7i Fossils. BY E. billings. (Continued.) 

The present paper contains observations on the genus Bea- 
 tricea^ which the author now believes to be neither a plant, as 
 at first supposed, nor a shell, as determined by Mr. Alpheus 
 Hyatt, Jr.,* but a coral. 

Reprint of Conehological Papers, by isaac lea. Published in the 
 Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 
 From May, 1863, to May, 1865. Bvo. pamphlet, 33 pp. Philadelphia, 
 1866. 

This work contains descriptions of 138. new species of fresh 
 water shells, principally Unionidse and Strepomatidse. 

We have already noticed the papers and copied the names 
 and localities of the species on their first publication. The 
 present compilation is very useful for those interested in the 
 subject of Mr. Lea's labors, and its solid contents show his 
 unremitting activity and zeal in the study of our fluviatile 
 molluscous fauna. 

Bulletin of the Mus. of Comp. Zool., No. 4. Bvo., 9 pp. Cam- 
 bridge, Mass. June, 1865. 

List of the Bracliiopoda from the Island of Anticosti, sent 
 by the Museum of Comparative Zoology to different Insti- 
 tutions in exchange for other Specimens, with Amiotations. 
 BY N". S. SHALER. 

* See this Journal, vol. i., p. 272. 

152 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

The species described are : — 

Lingula elegantula. Orthisina diver sa, 

Strophomena semiovalis. Syn- 0. Verneuilli, Billings. 

" reticulata. Plectambonites glabra, 

arcuata. 
 Anticostiensis, 

Syn. Lepicena sericea, Billings. 
 Plectambonites area, 
 ^ , ^.„. Syn. Lentmna transversalis, Bil- 

Syn. S. alternaia, Billings. lings. 

Strophomena alterniradiata. Plectambonites tenera. 

Brachyprion, N. Q. Leptsena quadrilatera, 

" ventricosum, Syn. Strophomena depressa, Bil- 

Syn. Stroph. PJiilomela, Billings ? lings. 

Brachyprion geiiiculatum. Platystrophia regularis. 

Orthis media^ Atrypa impressa, 

Syn. 0. elegantula, Billings. Syn. A. reticularis, Billings. 

Orthis sequivalva, Atrypa Jlavella. 

Syn. 0. hybrida, Billings. Athyris turgida. 

Orthis rhynconelliformis. Spirifer tenuistriatus. 
 " alata. 

Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History of New York. VIII. 
 Nos. 6 and 7. November, 1865. 

Catalogue of the Mbllusca of Little Gull Island, Suffolk 
 County, New York. BY Sanderson smith. 

The other papers contained in the present issue of the An- 
 nals we have already noticed as separate publications. 

Researches upon the Hydrobiinse and Allied Forms. By Dr. 

Wm. Stimpson, 8vo., 58 pp. Smithsonian Institution, Washington, 
 D. C, August, 1865. 

Under the above title the author has collected a mass of 
 important information regarding the structural characters and 
 affinities of the various species of minute fresh water shells, 
 which have been hitherto best known under the names of 
 Amnicola, Bithinia, Hydrohia, etc. He proposes to unite these, 
 as Messrs. H. and A. Adams have done, to the family Ris- 
 soidse, as he cannot find sufficient distinctive characters to 
 justify the separation of the fresh water species as a family, 
 Amnicolidse, as proposed originally by us,* and subsequently 
 adopted and defined by Prof. Theo. Gill.f 

Dr. Stimpson, after eliminating certain errors of Prof. Gill's 
 diagnosis as regards the American species, concludes that 
 there is no character left which would serve to distinguish the 
 Amnicolee and their allies as a distinct family from Bissoidse, 

* Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Sept., 1862. 
 t Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1864, p. 35. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 153 

except that of "foot not continued in front of rostrum. But 
 this character does not seem to be of sufficient importance to 
 indicate the separation of the two groups as distinct families, 
 when the agreement is so close in all other points." For this 
 reason, our author forms a subfamily, Hydrohiinve^ for these 
 shells. The Rissoidne are thus described : — 

"Tentacles elongated, with the eyes at their outer bases. 
 Verge (male organ) exserted, situated on the back at a con- 
 siderable distance behind the right tentacle. Gills both pal- 
 lial; the right or principal one usually rather short and 
 broad, and composed of few laminae, which are much broader 
 than high. Foot oblong, truncate before, rounded or pointed 
 behind. Operculigerous lobe well developed. Operculum 
 horny or partly shelly, spiral or concentric. Lingual teeth 3. 
 1. 3 ; the rows being more transverse and less arcuated than in 
 the Littorinidoe. Khachidian tooth broader than long, and 
 armed with basal denticles (so called by Troschel) on each 
 side, which may be either on the basal margin or on the 
 anterior surface of the tooth above the base ; cusp recurved 
 and denticulated. Intermediate tooth more or less hatchet- 
 shaped, having a handle-like process (peduncle) projecting 
 outwardly from the base of the broad body, which is denticu- 
 lated at the upper margin. Lateral teeth generally slender 
 and armed with numerous minute denticles at their superior 
 margins. Shell small, spiral, turreted or depressed, often 
 more or less umbilicated ; aperture more or less rounded, 
 never truly channelled in front ; peritreme continuous. Sta- 
 tion in fresh, brackish, or sea water, rarely on land. Distribu- 
 tion mundane." 

In this family are included, according to Dr. Stimpson, 
 several subfamilies, which he names and describes as follows : 

" Bythiniin^, with an ovate shell, a concentric operculum 
 which is calcareous within, and with cervical lobes. They 
 are comparatively large. Fresh water. Genus Bythinia* 
 Gray. 

EissoiNiN"^, with an ovate or turreted shell, and a thick, 
 corneous, subspiral operculum provided with an internal pro- 
 cess (articulated). Size small. Marine. Genus Rissoina, 
 D'Orb. 

EissoiN^, with an ovate or elongated shell, and a subspiral 
 operculum not provided with a process. Foot without lateral 
 sinuses. Khachidian tooth of the lingual ribbon with the 
 basal teeth on the inferior margin. Size small. Marine. 
 Genera Rissoa, Frem., Gingula, Flem., Alvania, Risso, Onoba, 
 H. and A. Ad., Setia, H. and A. Ad., Ceratia, H. and A. Ad.^ 
 Fenella, A. Ad. 

* Syn. Elona^ Moq.-Tand. 

154 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Skenein^, witli a depressed, almost discoidal shell, and a 
 corneous, paucispiral* operculum. Minute. Marine. Genus 
 Skenea, Flem. 

Hydrobiin^, with shell and operculum and foot like those 
 of the Bissoinse, but with the Rhachidian tooth of the lingual 
 ribbon having the basal teeth on the anterior surface behind 
 the lateral margins. Size variable ; some are minute, some as 
 large as Bytlmiise. Living in fresh or brackish water. Genera 
 irydrohia,\ Hartm., Littorinella, Braun, Amnicola, Gould and 
 Hald., Bythinella,% Moq.-Tand., Stenothyra,\ Benson, Trincula, 
 Benson, Pyrgula, Christ, and Jan., Paludestrina, D'Orb., Try- 
 onia, Stm., Potamopyrgus, Stm., Lithoglyplms, Muhlfeldt, Flu- 
 minicola, Stm., Gillia, Stm., Somatogyrus, Gill, Cochlioj^a, Stm. 

POMATIOPSIN"^, with the shell and operculum as in the Bis- 
 soinae. Foot with lateral sinuses. Size small. Amphibious. 
 Genus Pomatiopsis,^ Trjon. 

The above mentioned characters may be tabulated as fol- 
 lows : — 

A. Operculum concentiic - - - -" - - Bythiniin^. 

B. Operculum spiral. 

a. Operculum pauci-spiral Skenein^. 

b. Operculum subspiral. 

1. Operculum with an internal process - - Rissoininje. 

2. Operculum without an internal process. 

* Foot without lateral sinuses. 

t Rhachidian tooth of the lingual rib- 
 bon with the basal denticles on 
 the inferior margin - - - Rissoin^. ] 
 I Rhachidian tooth of the lingual rib- 
 bon with the basal denticles on 
 the anterior surface behind the 
 lateral margins . . - . HYDROBiiNiE. 
 ** Foot with lateral sinuses - - - Pomatiopsin^." 

"We beg to differ in opinion from Dr. Stimpson regarding 
 the rank to which these various groups are entitled. In the 
 first place, we think our Amnicolidse as validly separated as 
 a distinct family as are many other well-recognized families 
 of shells. We would mention the following distinctive cha- 
 racters in addition to the only one which Dr. Stimpson 
 finds to belong to the Amnicolidas, that of the "foot not con- 
 tinued in front of the rostrum." 

* According to the terminology of Woodward, the operculum of Skenea 
 would be multi-spiral, and that of the Bissoinm, etc., pauci-spiral. 

t Syn. Paludinella, Loven (not Pfeiffer), and Littorinida^ Eyd. & Soul. 
 § Syn. Leacliia^ Risso (not LesueurJ, Microna, Ziegler. 
 I Syn. Nematura, Benson. 
 *1[ Syn. ChilocyduSf Gill. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 155 

EISSOID^. Shell elongated, generally costate or striate, heavy, 
 not umbilicated ; aperture angulated above, more or 
 less truncately and broadly channelled below, somewhat 
 rhomboidal, labrum very much callously thickened. 
 Generally white or brown, or banded. 

Operculum. Subspiral. 

Dentition. Ehachidian tooth with basal denticles at each 
 side. 

Foot projecting in front of rostrum. 

Distribution. Marine only. 
 Skeneid^. Shell depressed, planorboid. 

Operculum. Pauci-spiral. 

Dentition. Ehachidian tooth with the cusp large, obtuse; 
 laterals also different in form from Rissoidae. 

Distribution. Marine only. 

Amnicolid^. Shell turbinate or elongate, generally smooth, 
 thin ; aperture generally round, and peristome continu- 
 ous, broadly rounded below, not thickened. Greenish. 

Operculum. Subspiral or concentric. 

Dentition. Ehachidian tooth with denticles placed on its 
 anterior surface behind the lateral margins. 

Distribution. Fresh water or amphibious. 

The reason why Dr. Stimpson did not find more than one 
 distinctive character to separate the families, it will be per- 
 ceived, is simply because he has included all the other charac- 
 ters in his diagnosis of Bissoidse. When we instituted the 
 family Amnicolidae, we had not studied the differences of the 
 Soft Parts, but simply those of the shells in connection with 
 their station ; and we still think that ample characters may be 
 thence derived, even if no differences in the animals had been 
 observed. 

The Skeneidse we now separate from Bissoidse, principally on 
 conchological grounds, as we are constantly receiving proof 
 of the vastly inferior value of the lingual armature as a dis- 
 tinctive character. With regard to Bissoidse, we adopt the 
 subfamilies Bissoininse and Bissoinse, but for the genera of 
 Amnicolidse we prefer a somewhat different grouping: — 
 BYTHiNiiNiE. Operculum concentric, calcareous within. 

STENOTHYElisrjB. Shell turbinate. Operculum subspiral, cal- 
 careous. Distribution Indian. Stenothyra, Gabbia.^ 
 * This genus is correctly described in this Journal fvol. i., p. 320, t. 
 22, f. 7) , but the figure of the operculum is not so distinctly drawn as could 
 be wished, which has caused Dr. Stimpson to doubt its generic position. 
 It is a good genus, and by no means an immature Stenothyra. 

156 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

HydrobiiNuE. Shell elongated, perforate, smooth. Opercu- 
 lum corneous. European and American. Liitorinella, 
 Sydrohia^ Bythinella, Paludestrina* 

Amnicolin^. Shell turbinate ; whorls very convex, umbili- 
 cate ; aperture round ; peristome continuous. Ameri- 
 can. Amnicola. 

POMATIOPSIN^. Foot with lateral sinuses. Shell elongate ; 
 margin of aperture slightly expanded. Terrestrial or 
 amphibious. American. Pomatiopsis. 

CoCHLiOPiN^. Shell heliciniform, heavy; aperture oblique ; 
 umbilicus large, with an angulated margin. American. 
 Gochliopa.\ 

L1THOGLYPHIN.E. Shell subglobular ; spire short ; aperture 
 large, half round ; peristome not continuous; imperforate 
 or slightly perforate. European and American. GilUa, 
 Somatogyrus, Lithoglyphiis, Fluminicola. 

For comparison, we copy the arrangement of Hydrohiinse 
 adopted by Dr. Stimpson. 

* The animals of Tricula, Pyrgula, and Tryonia are undescribed, and I 
 will not venture to assign their place, believing that the two last named 
 belong decidedly to another family. Does not Potamopyrgus, St., belong 
 to the same group ? 

t I almost doubt the pertinence of Cochliopa to this family, although Dr. 
 Stimpson's description of the Soft Parts seems to place it here. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 157 

Wk 

, oo 

in 

* CO 03— * CO * ^Tb rt 

CD <^ ^ Cr* (^ rD 

cocoE^ntioccco"' 

B P 

■ fC fC 



o 

3s:-322'SS.^^cS^,g-fL^c, 2;« £.« g, g^ . 5 

— ■-h3?5PB2s^^^-' 'tcx-' ~^^ ~.— • fD ri ' Z 

^-°'^:i^llrii-° =11 is- 11 ^ g I 

p fc" ^ 

! & 2 P. s 

:f:~&rt--5 ^'^2-PPt"iS-*'^ii 0-2- t^M • P 1 tri 

■3|| gi&|?2 -^g^' ?g Is 2 2 

CB w .- _ ^^ P fS 

^^^ P P 1-2 • E' ^E' • 2.2^ ^^ • :? • S 

2 p p S5 p- « 5 cq' ^^ a S 

c «> <^ r> -H « _^ <^ O O ^ '^ 

2-!r<^'^«2. ^No of6p2 ?r K* 

mOOq g'-^P' ,|i^ 11 2.^-0^ ' ° ' O 

rl;? sr ^ ^ §2 Is ■ • o 

p^qpg, p^- §ppp w 

g"2 P 5 & •§ p Uo g^S ' S 

^- a1 2§ I g Sa |5^ g 

iS O 

O 

0>C! 

Sfe ^g^ S^ S^ ^ ^-^ ^^ ^^ !? ^ 

|r §1 III 'i^ s-i^ ^1 |- I 

HS S.^ ^ ^ aa I.S. s-M' ^ 4* 

r CO CO e a • 

158 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

A large part of Dr. Stimpson's paper is occupied by inter- 
 esting detailed descriptions of the animals of several of the 
 species, with figures illustrative of their lingual armature, 
 generative organs, ova-capsules, etc. 

Among the interesting discoveries made by the author is 
 the fact that Amnicola Nickliniana (and most probably the 
 allied species tenuipes, Binneyi, turhiniformis, intermedia, etc.), 
 are congeneric with Bithinella (the European fresh water Hy- 
 drohioe). And that the globular species which, from a cursory 
 examination of the shell alone, would be all referred to Prof. 
 Gill's genus Somatogyrus, really constitute three genera, Flu- 
 minicola, type Pal. Nultalliana, Lea; Oillia, type Mel. altilis, 
 Lea ; and Somatogyrus, type *S'. depressus, Tryon. 

The last part of the paper contains systematic diagnoses of 
 the genera of Hydrohiinse, with partial lists of the species.* 
 Among these genera are the following new ones, all of which 
 were first described in this Journal (vol. i., p. 54, et seq.) : 
 Tryonta, Potamopyrgus, Cochliopa, Oillia, Pluminicola. 

This important work may be obtained without charge by 
 addressing the Smithsonian Institution. 

Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 
 phia, No. 5. Nov. and Dec, 1865. 

Gontrihutions to the Palseontology of Illinois and other 
 Western States. BY F. B. MEEK and A. H. WORTHEN. 

Lithophaga? pertenuis. Tentacvlites Sterling ensis. 

" lingualis, Phillips? Orthoceras crehristriatum. 
 Modiolopsis perovata. " suhhaculum. 

Pleurophorus suhcostatus. " Jolietense. 

" angulatus. " nohile. 

" costati/ormis. " Winchellii. 

Grammysia rhomboidalis. Phragm,oceras Walshii. 

Gonocardium ohliquum. Oomphoceras sacculum. 
 Edmondia peroblonga. " turhiniforme. 

Ghsenomya rhomhoidea. Nautilus peramplus. 

" hybrida. " Niotensis. 

Sedgwickin subarcuata. " Lasallensis. 

Isonema depressa. Discites ornatus. Hall, var. am- 
 Pleurotomaria meta. plus. 

Conularia multicostata. " disciformis. 

'' subcarbonaria. Gryptoceras capaxf 

" Whitei. " Leidyi. 

Tentaculites tenuistriatus. Trochoceras ? Baeri. 
 Tentaculites Oswegoensis. 

* We much doubt the pertinence of Paludestrina lapidum and P. perig- 
 tomata, D'Orb., to the genus Lithoglyphus. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 159 

Observations on the Microscojyic Shell Structure of Spirifer 
 cuspidatus, Sowerby, and some Similar American Forms. ' 
 BY F. B. MEEK. 

American Journal of Science and Arts. Vol. XLI. (Sd series), 
 No. 121. January, 1866. 

Notice of a New Group of Eocene Shells. BY T. A, 

CONEAD. 

Descriptions of New Species of Pupadse. by edward s. morse. 
 (Reprinted from the Aunals of the New York Lj'ceum of Natural His- 
 tory, VIII., Nov., 1865.) 

Isthmia ventricosa, Maine, Concord, N. H., Mohawk and 
 Greenwich, N. Y. 
 " Bollesiana^ Maine, New Hampshire, Massachu- 
 setts, New York, Norfolk, Ya. 
 " corpulenfa, Little Valley, Washoe Co., Nevada. 
 Pupilla Blandii, Missouri Eiver, near Fort Berthold. 

This paper contains magnified figures of the shells, and of 
 the lingual dentition and buccal plates of two of the species. 

Notes on Certain Terrestrial MoUusca, with Descriptions of 
 New Species, by thomas bland. (Keprinted from the same. J 

Proserpinella Berendti, Mexico. 
 Stenopus? Guildingi, Venezuela. 
 Helix conspecta, San Francisco, Cal. 
 Succinea Sillimani, Humboldt Lake, Nevada. 

" Stretchiana, Little Valley, Washoe Co., Nev. 

" Verrilli, Salt Lake, Anticosti Island, Gulf of 
 St. Lawrence. 

In this paper, Proserpinella, a new genus, is described. It 
 differs from Proserpina in being destitute of a columellar fold. 
 There are also figures of the animal and dentition of the Ste- 
 nopus, and of the dentition of Cylindrella and Macroceramus, 
 with explanatory remarks. 

Achatina Galifornica, Pfr., is shown to be from New Gran- 
 ada instead of California. 

Finally, Pupa Roivellii, Newcomb, and Pupa Californica, 
 Rowell, are compared and figured. 

Eeperterio fisico-natural de la Isla de Cuba. 8vo. Habana. 
 No. 1, April, 1865. No. 2, May, 1865. 

Review of Natural Science Literature of Cuba {including 
 MoUusca). BY D, MANUEL J. PRESAS. 

ICO AMERICAN JOURNAL 

No. 3-6, June— September, 1865. 

Descripcion de ires Moluscos Terrestres de la Isla de Cuba. 
 BY D. FELIPE POEY. 
 Helix gracilis^ Poey. 
 Gylindrella tnodesta, Poey. 
 Paludinella helicoides, Gundl. 

Catahgo de los Moluscos terrestres y fluviales de la Isla de 
 Cuba. BY EAFAEL AEANGO ; with Introductory Notice 

by FELIPE POEY. 

No. 8, November, 1865. 

Descripcion de una Especie Nueva de Molusco terrestre 
 Cubano. BY D. manuel j. presas. 

Gylindrella Garciana, Wright, Mss. 
 No. 9, December, 1865. 

Moluscos Terrestres y Fluviales encontrados por Gundlach 
 y Presas, en una Excursion de Geiba Mocha al Pan y al 
 Palenque. BY D. MANUEL J. PRESAS. 

II.— FOREIGN. 

Conchologia Iconica: or, Figures and Descriptions of the Shells 
 of Molluscous Animals, uy lovell reeve. 

Parts 246, 247. 

Ovulum. March, 1865. 8 plates and 39 species. The 
 new species are : — 

O.fruticum, Adams. Malacca. 

" alabaster, Eve. Senegal. 
 Erato. March, 1865. 3 plates, 18 species. 

E. angulifera, Sowb. Borneo. 

" gallinacea, Hinds. Philippines. 

" hematina, Mke. Porto Rico. 

" minuta, Rve. Philippines. 

" corrugata, Hinds. Philippines. 

" pellucida, Rve. Bombay. 

" nana, Duclos. ? 
 Unio (continued). April, 1865. Plates 21-26 and spe- 
 cies 91-125. 

U. vellicatus, Rve. Guatemala. 

" Gocoduensis^ White. ? 

" Moretonicus, Rve. Tasmania. 

" Vignonana, Bernardi. ? 

OP CONCHOLOGY, 

161 

U. rotunditus^ Lam., is the name given to a figure of which 
 the original is probably U. Kienerianns. It is, therefore, not 
 surprising that Mr. Reeve considers it " but little deserving of 
 the name given to it." 

We would inform English conchologists that the species 
 figured and described as Cocoduensis, White, is either a very 
 fine, large female U. nasuius, Say, or U. Mississippiensis^ Con. 

U. Sayi, Ward, is described as U. electricu^s^ with the syno- 
 nym " if. Sa7ji, Ward (not of Tappan"), 

Parts 248, 249. 

Carinaria. June, 1865. 

Torncutella. June, 1865. 
 lowing are new : — 

T, suturalis, Adams. 

" fumaia, Eve. 

*' Cumingii, Ad. 

" pudicus, Ad, 

" Senegalensis, Petit. 

*' Niphonensis, Ad. 

*' Didnse, Ad. 

" modesta, Ad. 

" lyratd, Carpenter. 

" Marise, Ad. 

Ovulum (concluded), June, 1865. 
 40-66. 

1 plate, S species. 
 4 plates, 22 species. 

The fol- 

Japan, Philippines 

Australia. 

Rio Janeiro. 

Philippines-. 

Senegal, 

Japan. 

Japan. 

Philippin-es. 

Hong Kong. 

? 

Plates 9-14, species 

0. Angasi^ Ad. 

*' roseum, Ad, 

" Indicum, Rve. 

'* Californicum, Sowb. 

" arcuatum, Rve. 

" variahile^ C. B. Ad 

" neglectum, C, B. Ad. 

" lividum, Rve, 

" Anttllarum, Rve. 

Unio (continued), June, 
 126-160. 

IT. hicselatiis, Rve. 
 " fiavidens, Benson. 
 " aplatus, Swains. 
 '* merdiger, Watts. 
 '* guhernaculum, Rve. 
 '* inornatus, Hanley. 
 " auratus, Swains. 
 " ohliqui-radiatus, Rve. 

Australia. 
 China Seas, 
 Bombay. 
 California. 
 ? 

? 
 ? 

Panama, 
 W. Indies. 

1865, Plates 20-30, 

Bengal. 

Island of Chiloe. 

Hungary. 

Cambojia. 
 Island of Chiloe. 

-spec 

162 AMERICAN JOTJENAL 

U. Menziesianus, Gray. New Zealand. 

" Dembeee, Rossm. Abyssinia. 

" fragilis, Swains. Island of Chiloe. 

" Axiklandianus, Gray. New Zealand. 

" fuligo, Eve. ? 

" sereus, Rve. ? 

U. obliqui-radiaius is nothing but a female U. radiatus, 
 Lam. U. auratus, Swains., and U. fragilis, Swains., both from 
 the Island of Chiloe, appear to me to be the same species. 

Parts 250, 251. 

Pyramidella. October, 1865. 6 plates, 45 species. 
 Gerithium. October, 1865. 10 plates, 70 species. 
 G. nigrofasciaium, Sowb. Philippines. 
 " circinatum, Ad. Philippines. 

The monograph of Pyramidella is completed, and contains 
 forty-five species, of which none are new. Gerithium is not 
 yet complete. 

We hope that Mr. Sowerby will find sufficient encourage- 
 ment to proceed with the publication of "Conchologia Iconica," 
 now threatened with discontinuance, in consequence of the 
 recent deaths of Hugh Cuming and of its author and pub- 
 lisher, Mr. Lovell Reeve. 

Report of the Thirty-fourth Meeting of the British Association 
 for the Advancement of Science, held at Bath in September, 
 1864. 8vo. London, 1865. 

Further Report on Shetland Dredgings. BY J. GWYN 
 JEFFEEYS. 

"In one of my former Reports I noticed that the marine 
 fauna of Shetland is in the main Scandinavian. This, indeed, 
 would be the natural inference from the geographical position 
 of these isles. But it has undoubtedly also a southern cha- 
 racter, and includes many species which inhabit the Mediter- 
 ranean. Some naturalists, who appear not to have studied the 
 question in all its bearings, ascribe this southern element to 
 the influence of the Gulf of Mexico. I cannot help repeating 
 what I have already urged elsewhere, that the eastern coasts 
 of Shetland are, so far as can be ascertained, quite exempt 
 from the operation and effect of this mighty 'river in the 
 ocean.' No seeds of tropical plants, no lanthinse, Sjnrula, 
 exotic kinds of Teredo, Velella, or other pelagic animals which 
 usually accompany the course o--^- the Gulf Stream, have ever 
 been found on any part of these coasts. The only drift-wood 
 which has been observed floating in the sea or cast ashore by 
 the waves — and in this treeless district every kind of wood is 

OF coNCiioLoay. 163 

much sought after — consists of Norwegian fir trees, often with 
 their roots, and drilled by the same species of Teredo [T. mego- 
 tara or nana) that attacks piles and fixed wood-work, as well 
 as boats equally in the harbors of East Shetland and Norway. 
 Besides, another consideration must not be lost sight of, viz., 
 that the Mediterranean fauna is quite independent of the 
 Gulf Stream; and a glance at Maury's chart will show that 
 the direction of its course, or of the 'drift' which may have 
 been mistaken for it, oft' the western coasts of Europe and 
 Africa (including the entrance to the Straits of Gibraltar), is 
 entirely southward, and forms, in fact, the return current. The 
 present distribution of marine life in the European seas must 
 be traced in some other way, and with reference to geological 
 conditions. Palieontologists are well aware that many kinds 
 of Mollusca which still inhabit the Mediterranean, but not our 
 seas, left their remains on the area that now constitutes the 
 eastern coasts of England, perhaps at a period long antecedent 
 to the origin of the Gulf Stream. Several species of Mollusca, 
 which may be termed southern forms, likewise occur on the 
 Dogger Bank and the coasts of Yorkshire and Northumber- 
 land; and among them may be enumerated Trochus millegra- 
 nus, Scalaria Turtoni, Natica sordida, Murcx erinaceous, De- 
 francia br achy stoma, and Pleiirotoma teres. . . ." 

"It seems to me as if shells belonging to the same species, 
 that are common to the littoral and deep-water zones, attain a 
 greater size and thickness in the former than in the latter 
 habitat. Such are Venus galUna, Tellinafahula, Mactra solida 
 (compared with its variety elliptica), Tectura virginea^ Rissoa 
 Alderi, Trochus zizyphinus, T. cinerarius, T. tumidus^ and Buc- 
 cinum undatum (compared with its variety Zetlandica). Mr. 
 Jordan informs me that he has observed the same difference 
 with regard to specimens of Pandora inxquivalvis and its 
 variety ohtusa, Tectura virginea, and Chiton discrepans, which 
 he has lately taken on the shore and dredged oft' the Channel 
 Isles. More extensive observations are unquestionably de- 
 sirable, if not necessary, before this proposition can be substan- 
 tiated ; but it has been abundantly proved by the researches 
 of Dr. Davy, Forch hammer, and Bishof, that the quantity of 
 carbonate of lime held in solution by sea-water, and from which 
 shells are secreted, occurs chiefly along coast-lines, being do 
 rived from terrestrial sources, and brought down to the sea by 
 rivers, streams, and the washings of rain and waves. This 
 would give a reason for litt''«ral shells being more solid than 
 those from deep water ; and possibly the greater abundance of 
 food in the former than in the latter case might account for 
 the increase of bulk. 

164 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

" I noticed in the last Report, that living Mollusca, taken by 
 the dredge from considerable depths, and placed in a shallow 
 vessel of water drawn from the shore, did not appear to be in 
 the slightest degree affected by the sudden change of bathy- 
 metrical conditions. I wish to qualify this statement, and, at 
 the same time, to record a further observation. It is quite 
 true that the Mollusca in question were lively and active in 
 their new habitat; but those which were of the univalve kind 
 exhibited a peculiarity and habits with which I was much 
 struck. All of them, on being placed in the vessel, tried to 
 escape from the bottom, and quickly found their way up the 
 sides to the open air; some floated with the sole of the foot 
 uppermost and the shell downwards. Now, it is very certain 
 that in their native habitat, at a depth of nearly 500 feet, these 
 raollusks, which are ground-dwellers and have no means of 
 rising to the surface of the sea, could not have floated in this 
 way, or even had time or opportunity, since they were taken 
 up from the depths of the ocean, to acquire such a habit. 
 Was it instinct? If so, when was it implanted? Another 
 fact worthy of notice is the eagerness which they displayed to 
 escape out of the water and to breathe the open air. One 
 would have supposed that the water at the bottom of the 
 ocean was much less aerated or oxygenated than that on the 
 shore, and that the mollusks would have supplied their gills 
 more copiously in surface- water with the requisite element. 
 But exactly the contrary has been ascertained by some ex- 
 periments conducted on board the French surveying ship 
 'Bonite;' and it is now clearly established that the quantities 
 of atmospheric air increase with the depth. According to Dr. 
 Wallich, in an admirable chapter of his 'North Atlantic Sea 
 Bed,' entitled 'The Bathymetrical Limits of Life in the Ocean,' 
 the proportion of gaseous matter taken up by water is very 
 greatly increased under an increase of pressure, all gases (es- 
 pecially oxygen and hydrogen) being easily compressible and 
 becoming liuid under a comparatively slight pressure. We 
 but imperfectly understand the mode in which the solution of 
 atmospheric air in sea-water is brought about; but the ten- 
 dency of fluids to absorb gaseous bodies is constant under all 
 circumstances, and the quantity which they are capable of 
 appropriating increases with pressure. It, therefore, follows 
 that the deeper the stratum of water, the greater must be the 
 amount of gaseous matter held in solution by it. For a more 
 detailed explanation of this problem I must refer to the work 
 above cited. I can now understand why deep-water mollusks 
 do not find in the surface-water the same supply of atmos- 
 pheric air as they had been accustomed to, and why they 

OF CONCIIOLOQY. 165 

creep out of it into tlie open air to avoid a sensation whicli we 
 should call stifling or suffocation." 

This paper is concluded with a description of a new species 
 of Amphisj)hyra. 

A. expansa, Jeffreys, Shetland, 

and a monograph of the species StiUfer, including a descrip- 
 tion of the animal. 

Transactions of the Linnean Society of London. Vol. 24, part 3, 

1804. 

On a JSltfo Genm of Teredininse. BY E. PERCEVAL WRIGHT, 
 M. D. 

This species was obtained in Comer River, a branch of the 
 Ganges. The water is perfectly fresh, being seventy miles 
 from the sea, though at thirty miles further down it is brack- 
 ish at full tide. The species, it appears, though now first 
 described, is well known to Hindoo boatmen, who meet witii 
 it even higher up the Ganges. Boats infested by them are 
 suspended over a fire, which soon destroys them, and by 
 slightly charring the surface, prevents, for a time, a second 
 attack. 

The auricle is not developed on the valves of this species, 
 we are informed, but whether this proves a permanent, and, 
 therefore, a generic character, must be determined by future 
 researches. Only two specimens were examined, and I have 
 occasionally found the auricle absent in species in which it is 
 usually well developed. 

In the largest specimen, the valves are an inch in length, 
 and the pallets 7-8ths of an inch. Of the latter, "the body is 
 broad, slightly concave on its inner surface, which, in one 
 specimen, is worn somewhat flat ; the outer surface is convex 
 and roughly imbricated. A peculiar coredike body is seen 
 running through the expanded portion underneath the thick 
 scaledike stride. The stalk is cylindrical, curved, and tapers 
 to a fine, sharp point ; there is a slight muscular scar around 
 the junction of the body with the stalk." Dr. Wright has 
 named the genus Nausitora, and the species N. Dunhpiei. 

On the Structure and Homologies of the Renal Organ in the 
 Nudihranchiate Mollusca. BY ALBANY HANCOCK. 

An extended and valuable paper, illustrated bj six excellent 
 plates. 

166 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

British Conehology, or an Account of the Mollusca which now 
 Inhabit the British Isles and the Surrounding Seas, by j. 
 GWYN JEFFREYS. Vol. 3, 12mo , cloth, 393 pp. and 9 plates. London, 
 John Van Voorst, 1865. (Price 12 shillings per volume.) 

"We have rarely perused a work on Natural History wbicli 
 lias afforded us so much pleasure as the volumes of which the 
 third, as quoted above, is now before us. It is seldom, indeed, 
 that naturalists succeed in investing their subject with an 
 interest which renders it acceptable to those who are not spe- 
 cially instructed therein. In this difficult undertaking Mr. 
 Jeffreys has succeeded. He has given us the best and fullest 
 descriptions in language remarkably free from the ordinary 
 dry technicality of the science, succeeded by most excellent 
 observations on the localities, both recent and fossil, the bib- 
 liography of the species, on the habits of the animals, etc. 

We have never before seen so much and so varied informa- 
 tion contained in such small compass in any work on geogra- 
 phical conehology. The fifty pages of observations on the 
 genus Teredo form the most elaborate example in the present 
 volume of the author's style. 

We commend this work to the perusal of all those interested 
 in the science, and trust that some American author will 
 undertake a work to be written in the same attractive style. 

We congratulate Mr. Jeffreys upon his success, a success 
 which will also benefit our science and mankind by luring 
 numbers to study the subject. 

Annals and Magazine of Natural History. XVI. London, 1865. 
 No. 92. • August. 

On the Homology of the Buccal Parts of the Mollusca. BY 
 DR. OTTO A. L. MoRCii, of Copenhagen. 

On the Operculum and its Mantle. BY DR. o. A. L. MORCH. 
 No. 94. October. 

On the Axistralian Species of Paludina. BY E. VON MAR- 
 TENS, M. D. 
 P.AnstraliSy Keeve, "probably = P. Essingt&nensis, Shuttl." 
 P. afftnis, Martens. This, we are informed, bears the same 
 relation to P. Australis that the European P. fasciata does to 
 P. vivipara. The position of the bands and absence of spiral 
 sculpture will serve to distinguish V. sicpra fas data, figured in 
 our January No., from either of these species. 

P. polita. Martens. This we believe to be the same as Y. 
 suhlineata, Conrad, figured also in our last No. The latter 
 name has priority. 

No. 95. November. 

On the Microscopic Structicre of the Shell of Phynchonella 
 Geinitziana. BY WM. B. carpenter, m. d. 

OP CONCHOLOQY. 16f 

FRENCH. 

Malacologie d'Aix-les-Bains. by j. r. bourguignat. 8vo., 86 pp., 
 3 plates. Paris, 1864. 

The following species are new : — 

Zonites Dumontianus. Csecilianella uniplicata. 

Selix Juriniana. Pomatias Sahaudinus. 

Monographie du Nouveau Genre Francais Paladilhia. by j. r. 
 BOURGUIGNAT. 8vo., 21 pp. and 1 plate. Paris, January, 1865. 

This new genus is instituted for several minute univalve 
 flaviatile shells recently discovered in France. They are 
 elongated shells, having the general appearance of Acme, but 
 umbilicated and having a phurotomose lip ! 

Paladilhia pleurotoma. Paladilhia Gervaisiana. 

" Moitessieri. 

Monographie du Nouveaux Genre Francais Moitessieria. by 
 J. R. BOURGUIGNAT. 8vo., 18 pp. and 2 plates. Paris, Dec, 1863. 

The typical species of this genus is Palxidina Simoniana, 
 Charp. (= P. vitrea, Moquin-Tandon, not P. vitrea of Menke. 
 The new species are : — 

Moitessieria Rolandiana. Moitessieria Massoti. 

" Gervaisiana. 

MoUusques Terrestres et Fluviatiles. recueillis par m. henri 
 DUVEYRiER dans le Sahara, et decrits par m. j. r. bourguignat. 8vo., 
 30 pp., 3 plates. Paris, 1865. 

Helix Warnieriana. Planorlis Duveyrieri, Des- 

Sydrohia Duveyrieri. hayes. 

Planorhis Aucajntainianus. " Maresianus. 

Journal de Conchyliologie. Third Series, vi., No. 1, 8vo. Paris, 
 January, 1866. 104 pp. and 4 plates, one of which is colored. 

Anatomie du Genre Septifer. by p. Fischer. 

Etudes sur la Faune Malacologique de Saint Jean-de-Luz, 
 de Dinan et quelques autres Points du Littoral Oceanien 
 de la France. Part 2. by jules mabile. 

Examen Critique du Groupe des Helix cariosula, Mayrani, 
 Candidissima et Bsetica. by j. b. gassies. 

Note sur VIdentite des Lucina Voorhoevei, Deshayes, et L. 
 mirahilis, Dunker. BY F. VAN hulkelom. 

Note Relative aux Genres Balea et Temesa. BY 0. SEMPER. 

168 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Description d^Esp^ces Nouvelles Provenant d^ Australie et 
 des lies Salomon et Norfolk. BY J. C. COX, M. D. 

Vitrina planilahris. Helix aridorum. 
 Helix Greenhilli. " splendescens. 

" Urarensis. " flosculus. 

" Nautiloidea. 

Description d^Espbces Nouvelles Provenant de la Nouvelle 
 Cahdonie. Sixth article. BY. J. b. gassies. 

Zonites sub/ulvus. Neritina Artensis. 
 Helix Kanaldna. " costulata. 

Bulimus Artensis. Navicella Moreletiana. 
 Cyclostoma Guestierianum. 

Description de Ooquilles Terrestres Nouvelles. BY H. 
 CEOSSE. 

Helix Lienardiana,'M.a,uritms. Helix Bocageana, China ? 
 " Hidalgoiana, Oceanica. " Oailleti, Oceanica. 
 " Primeana, China? " Mahillei, Oceanica. 

Description d^Uspkes Appurtenant a la Faune Malacolo- 
 gique de VIndo-Ghine. BY ARTHUE MORELET. 

Vitrina Cochinchinensis. Unio venustus. 

Monocondylus tumidus.* " micropterus. 

" exilis. 

Description d\in Murex Fossile du Terrain Tertiaire Sub- 
 Apennin de la Vallee de VElsa [Toscane). BY M. PAU- 
 LUCCI. 
 Murex Veranyi. 

Description de Ooquilles Fossiles des Terrains Tertiaires 
 Superieurs [continued). BY M. C. MAYEE. 

Gardium Brocchii. Gardium Girondicum. 
 " commune. " Leogenanense. 

" Darivini. " ~ Saucatse^ise. 

" Gallicum. 

Guriosites Bibliographiques ; une Mystification Scientifiqut 
 au XVIIIe Steele, by h. ceosse. 

Bihliographie. 

* ^'■Monocondyloea, Anct., On ne s'explique ni la dipthongue ni la desi- 
 nence feminine.'* 

OP OONCHOLOGY. 169 

Eevue et Magazin Zoologie. No. li, Nov., 1865. Mollusques Nou 
 veaux, Litigieux ou pen Connus. by m. j. r. bourguignat. 

Unio Bothi. Lake of Tiberias, Eiver Jordan, Syria. 

" iivibonatus {U. liitoralis, var. nmhonatus, Eossmassler). 

" Subreniformis, Bourg. Spain. 

" Penchinaiianus, Bourg. " 

" Valentinus, Kossm. " 

" Hisimnus, Moq.-Tand. " 

" Graellsiamis, Bourg. " 

" Courquinianus, Bourg. " 

Kevue et Magazin de Zoologie. Second Series, XVIII., No. 1, 18G6. 
 Mollusques Nouveaux, Litigieux ou peu Connus. by j. r. bourguig- 
 nat. 

Anodonta MeMnia. Valencia. 
 The balance of the paper contains the enumeration of the 
 Unionidse of the Spanish Peninsula and of Algiers, numbering 
 thirty-four species, with remarks on Unio Aleroni and other 
 species. 

Malacologie de la Grande-Chartreuse, by j. r. bourguignat. 
 104 pp., 8vo. Paris, F. Savy, June, 1864. (30 francs.) 

This is one of the most beautiful octavos on Conchology 
 ever issued from the French press. The paper is very heavy 
 and of fine finish, the type and printing excellent, and the six- 
 teen plates in duplicate plain on India paper, and colored, are 
 splendidly executed. 

Preceding the descriptive portion of the work is a sketch of 
 the country, including the particular localities of the species 
 collected, illustrated by nine beautiful lithographic views. A 
 review of the authors who have described the species of this 
 region then follows, and finally the synonymy and description 
 of eighty species, including the anatomy of Helix Fontenilli^ 
 S. aljiina, and II. dejiilata. 

The new species described are : — 

Arion Dupuyanus. Zonites Dumontianus. 

Limax erythrus. Helix phorochsetia. 

" euhalius. " Bourniana. 

Malacologie de I'Algerie. by j. r. bourguignat. Sixth Part (con- 
 clusion), pp. 233-380. 

Hydrohia, 3 species, Amnicola;-9 species, Melania, 1 species, 
 Melanopsis, 3 species, Neritina, 3 species, Sphserium, 2 species, 
 Pisidium, 4 species, Unio, 7 species, Anodonta, 4 species. 

The following are new : — 

Neritina Maresi. Anodonta emhia. 

Unio Letourneuxi. " Numidica. 

Anodonta Letourneuxi. 

ItO AMERICAN JOURNAL 

In an appendix the following additional new species are 
 described : — 

Vitrina Letourneuxi. Helix ablennia. 

Zonites subplicatulus. Vertigo hriohia. 

Helix Challameliana. Hydrohia Challamelliana. 
 " Bastidiana. 

In the appendix a recapitulation of the species is given, 
 numbering 319, being 234 more than the number enumerated 
 in Terver's work, and 194 more than the catalogue of Morelet. 
 A map of Algiers is next given, colored to represent those 
 parts of the country thoroughly and superficially explored 
 and unexplored for shells, respectively. The latter exhibits 
 by far the largest surface, and the thoroughly explored region 
 is comparatively small. 

The species of Morocco and Tunis are then enumerated and 
 compared with those of Algiers. The third chapter of the 
 appendix treats at length of the geographical distribution of 
 the species, and is illustrated by a colored map showing the 
 position of the littoral, mountain, and high plateau faunae, with 
 a tabular view of the species of the mountains and of the 
 valleys. 

The fourth chapter shows that the species of the Algerian 
 provinces do not approach those of the Canaries, Madeira, 
 Sicily, or Central Africa, but belong rather to the Spanish 
 fauna. In proof of this proposition, lists of the shells of the 
 above islands are given. M. Bourguignat concludes, from the 
 very distinct faunas possessed by the Canaries and Azores, 
 that each archipeligo (once a single large island) has its own 
 particular centre of creation, and that they did not at any time 
 join the African Continent. Among 254 Sicilian species enu- 
 merated, 62 are also Algerian, but many of these are cosmo- 
 polite species. The species of Spain number 300, of which 
 more than half are found also in Algiers. 

In a fifth chapter the author examines the Malaco-strati- 
 graphical principles governing the distribution of species of 
 the European system. He says that — 

" 1. Between the 35th and 46th degrees of north latitude is 
 found a zone of creation, and this zone coincides with a series 
 of mountain ranges extending from the Atlantic Ocean to the 
 Caspian Sea in Asia. 

" 2. That to the north of this zone the species distributed 
 over the vast central and northern regions of Europe originate 
 entirely within this zone. 

" 3. That to the south, on the contrary, each species has a 
 localized existence, and remains unchangeable in its habitat 
 and its mode of habitation." 

OP CONCHOLOQY. 17 1 

These three points prove that this zone of creation may be 
 divided into three well distinguished parts, each forming a 
 particular creative centre. 

The first centre includes Spain, extending from the Pyren- 
 nees to the south of Morocco, Algiers, and Tunis. The second 
 extends from the French Alps, following the mountain chains 
 to the east towards the Bosphorous and Black Sea, and to the 
 south to the extremities of the Italian and Hellenic peninsulas; 
 and the third is found from the eastern borders of Anatolia 
 along the Taurian chain towards the Persian and Caspian 
 Seas; it includes Caucasia, Crimea, the Isle of Crete, Cyprus, 
 etc. 

It is a singular fact, says our author, that to the SDuth of 
 these three grand centres, there does not exist any other spe- 
 cial fauna, and that the vast regions of the Sahara, Tripoli, 
 Egypt, Arabia Petrea, Mesopotamia, and Persia are void of 
 special species, making an immense line of demarcation between 
 the great European and the African and Asiatic centres. 

In the Sahara and Tripoli all the species of terrestrial or 
 fluviatile shells belong to the Spanish fauna, except Melania 
 tuherculata from the African. In Egypt nearly all the terres- 
 trial species are Syrian, while the fluviatiles are descended from 
 the African centre, introduced by the Nile. In Mesopotamia 
 the shells are Syrian ; and all the species of Persia are Arme- 
 nian in origin. 

To the north of these creative centres M. Bourguignat finds 
 the same facts governing the distribution of the species as to 
 the south of them; the vast countries extending from the Alps 
 to the Arctic Ocean containing almost entirely species having 
 their origin in the Alpine system. 

As the result of his studies of the principles of geographical 
 distribution, M. Bourguignat presents the following sum- 
 mary : — 

" 1. The centre of creation of each species is simple, and not 
 multiple. 

" 2. The species of the European system have their creative 
 centre in the mountainous countries, and not in the plains or 
 low countries. 

"3. There exist in Europe, without counting certain small 
 continental or insular centres, three great centres of creation : 
 1. The Spanish centre. 2. The Alpine centre. 3. The Tau- 
 rian centre. 

"4. The species which are distributed throughout the whole 
 European system originate in these centres. 

" 5. Each centre possesses a peculiar fauna, entirely special, 
 and composed of a series of adapted types. 

" 6. To the north of these centres the area of the species is 

172 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

immense; to the middle, on the contrary, it is excessively cir- 
 cumscribed. The differential proportions of the middle and 
 northern areas is as 1 to 200. 

" 7. To the north of the centres the acclimatation or radia- 
 tion of the species is effective to the middle of the region. 

"8. The radiation from the Alpine centre embraces nearly 
 all of Europe ; that of the Spanish centre is very feeble ; that 
 of the Taurian centre is nearly none. 

"9, To the middle of the centres, on the contrary, the spe- 
 cies is always localized ; generally it is special. 

" 10. A species is so far special that it has a centre where 
 it inhabits solely, without intermixture Avith another, when 
 not submitted to maritime influence or accidental acclimata- 
 tion. 

"11. The maritime influence is powerless in the regions to 
 the north of the centres. 

"12. To the middle of the centres, on the contrary, the 
 maritime influence is asserted with such energy with certain 
 species, that these shells have become, for malacologists, the 
 positive evidence of a sea-coast. 

" 13. The species accidentally transported are an exception, 
 nevertheless, to those subject to maritime influence, being 
 acclimated, 1. Those of the north to the middle, and not those 
 of the middle to the north; 2. Those of the Orient to the Oc- 
 cident, and never those of the Occident to the Orient. 

" 14. The conchological population of the great centres of 
 creation is always less numerous (comparatively) than that of 
 insular centres. 

" 15. Every island, however inconsiderable, separated in 
 origin from the Continent, possesses its' peculiar species. 

" 16. Every island, anciently united with a Continent, and 
 separated by the sea at a more recent epoch, naturally con- 
 tains the fauna which inhabited it prior to the separation. 

" 17. In the same island are found certain types of form, and 
 a multitude of modifications of these types. 

" 18. The area of insular species is much more restricted 
 than the area of Continental species placed to the middle of 
 the grand creative centres." 

The above interesting extracts, necessarily presented here 
 in a condensed form, present to American Conchologists seve- 
 ral facts (those relating to insular faunas) which are by no 
 means new, Prof. C. B. Adams having discussed them at length 
 in his "Contributions to Conchology." 

The final conclusions of M. Bourguignat, in applying these 
 facts to the Algerian fauna, are that — 

1. At the commencement of the modern creative pericd the 
 north of Africa was nearly an island, joined to Spain. 

OF coNciioLoay. 173 

2. That at this epoch the Strait of Gibraltar did not exist, 
 o. That the Mediterranean communicated with the Ocean 
 by the desert of Sahara, wliich at this time was a vast sea. 

Bulletin de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Peters- 
 burg. V. Parts 30-33. 4to. St. Petersburg. 

VorJdufige Diagnosen einigerneuer Gasteropoden-Arten cms 
 dem Nord Japanischen Meere. BY DR. L. V. schrenck. 
 Chiton A Ibrechtii. Trochus glohularius. 

•' Lindholmii. Natica hiclneta. 

Trochus Nordmannii. Tritonium {Fusus) Jessoense. 

"■ snhfvscescens. " {Buccinum) peri- 

" Jessoensis. codtUon. 

"■ iridescens. Volnta pusilla. 

Annales des Sciences Naturelles. 5th Series. Zoologie. Vol. 
 4. No. 6. December, 1865. 

Comment les lantJdnes font leur Flotteur. BY DR. lacaze 
 DUTIIIERS. 

Recherches sur VCEil de quelqnes Cephalopodes. BY PROF. 
 VICTOR HENSEN". 

(Extracted from Zeitschr fiir Wiss. Zoologie, xv., 1865.) 

GERMAN. 

Monographia Pnuemonopomorum viventium. Supplementum 
 secundum, by dk. louis pfeiffer. 284 pp., 8vo. Theodore 
 Fischer, Cassel, 1865. 

Within the past few years, no other department of Malaco- 
 logical science has progressed so rapidly as the terrestrial 
 Mollusca. A host of enterprising collectors and naturalists 
 liave confined their attention to these shells alone, and have 
 pursued the study with unequalled success. We look in vain 
 through the literature of Marine Conchology for the same 
 critical acumen and thorough knowledge of the subject ; and 
 among the fluviatile families, one only (Unionidse) hsis been 
 equally well studied. 

We believe that the entire credit of originating and pro- 
 moting Terrestrial Malacology as a separate study, should be 
 awarded to Dr. Louis Pfeiffer, who has unceasingly worked 
 for many years in publishing a complete Bibliography of the 
 vspecies; besides his "Malacozoologische Blatter" and "Novi- 

1Y4 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

tates Conchologicse," botli of which are mainly devoted to the 
 description of terrestrial species. 

The following list of Dr. Pfeiffer's works will show at once 
 the extent of his labors, and the rapid progress of this branch 
 of the science : — 

Symholse ad Historiam Heliceorwn. I., 1841, II., 1842. III., 
 1846. 

Contains Tables of Synonymy, with descriptions of ninv or 
 imperfectly known species only. In the third part, the spe- 
 cies of Helix are arranged on the plan which the author has 
 since used for all the genera. 

Monographia Heliceorum viventium. I., II., 1848. 1075 pp. 

2278 species. 
 III., 1853. 711pp. 3882 

species. 
 IV., 1855. 920 pp. 5159 
 species. 
 Monog. Aitriculaceorum viventium. Y ., 1852. 209 pp. 242 sp. 
 " Pneumonopomorum " I., 1852. 439 pp. 735 sp. 

II., 1858. 249 pp. 899 sp. 
 " III., 1865. 284 pp. 1686 sp. 

The very large increase in the number of operculated shells 
 is owing, in a considerable degree, to the researches of natural- 
 ists and travellers in Cuba. The increase of species of oper- 
 culate terrestrial shells in the principal genera, may be desig- 
 nated thus: — 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 115 

176 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

It will be noticed, tliat, in several of the genera, the increase 
 of known species within 13 years, has been very slow, while 
 in others it has been exceedingly rapid. Adamsiella, Cistula^ 
 Oeomelania, Oiopoma, Pterocyclos, and Tudora are examples 
 of the first ; while, among the examples of rapid progression, 
 Stoastoma is very remarkable, the increase being due to the 
 energy of Hon. E. Chitty, a resident in Jamaica. In the pre- 
 sent monograph. Dr. Pfeiffer has adopted a large number of 
 the new genera proposed for East Indian species by the 
 Messrs. Adams, Blanford and Benson, and most of the species 
 described in the various scientific journals during the year 
 1864 are included. 

Ueber die Familie der Rissoiden. by gustav schwaktz von mohr- 
 ENsTERN. (Denkschrifteu der Kaiserlich Akad. der Wissenchaften, 
 XIX.) 

L Bissoina, 120 pp., 4to, 11 colored litho. plates. Wien, 1860. 
 XL Blssoa, 58 pp., 4to, 4 " " " " 1863. 

This beautiful work deserves a longer notice than our space 
 will at present admit of. The work commences with a long 
 review of the literature of the family, containing synopses of 
 the various classifications that have been proposed, with other 
 interesting particulars. The literature quoted is very extensive, 
 embracing over 150 volumes and papers; next we have descrip- 
 tions of the principal collections of Rissoidae in Europe, which 
 have been consulted by the author. 

Then follow papers on anatomical details, and on geograph- 
 ical and geological distribution. 

After the foregoing introductory pages, the genus Rissoina 
 is fully described, with numerous interesting facts appended, 
 and an analytical table of fossil and recent species. The text 
 of Part I. is concluded by very complete descriptions of 91 
 species. 

Part II. contains a like description of the genus Rissoa, and 
 its species, 47 in number. 

The plates, representing the species greatly magnified, are 
 beautifully drawn and colored, and contain over 300 figures. 
 The work may be obtained from Karl Gerold's Sohn, booksel- 
 ler, Vienna. 

Novitates Conchologicae. by dr. louis pfeiffer. Part 22, 4to Cas- 
 sel. (no date). 

Cylindrella Coronadoi, Arango. Cuba. 

" Blainiana, Gundl. " 

Trochatella regina, Morelet. " 

Helicina emocla, Pfr. " 

Trochatella Mouhoti, Pfr. Cambodia. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 

Ill 

Lucidella sulcata, Weinland. Haiti. 

Helicina MacMurrayi, Pfr. Trinidad. 

Gylindrella arcuata, Weinl. and Mart. Haiti. 

" zehrina, Pfr. Jamaica. 

" Paivana, Pfr. " 

" arcustriata, Wright. Cuba. 

" violacea, Wright. " 

" trilamellata, Pfr. " 

" twmidula, Weinl. et Mart. Haiti. 

" suturalis, Weinh " 

" plumhea, Wright. Cuba. 

" fastigiata, Gundh " 

" lateralis, GundL " 

Balea Hdueri, Bielz. Transylvania. 
 " cyclostoma, Bielz. " 

(Uausilia Meschendorferi, Bielz. " 

These species are all handsomely figured. 

Novitates Conehologicse. Part 2. Mollusques Marins. by dr. 
 w. DUNKER. Eighth No. 4to. Cassel. 

Pecten multisquamatus, Dkr. 

" sulcicostatus, Sowb. 
 Tivela subglohosa, Dkr. 

'"' Natalensis, Dkr. 
 Solen Lischkeanus, Dkr, 

" Woodtoardii, Dkr, 

" gracilis, Phil, 

" grandis, Dkr. 

" Malaccensis, Dkr. 
 Cultellus attenuatus^ Dkr, 

9th Part, 

Callista Gotthardi, Dkr. 
 Sunetta concinna, Dkr. 
 Tapes Schnellianus^ Dkr. 
 Biplodonta hullata^ Dkr. 
 Lucina carnosa, Dkr. 

" mirahilis, Dkr. 
 Donax euglyptus, Dkr. 

" splendens, Dkr. 
 Dosinia tenuiliraia, Dkr. 

" subdichotoma, Dkr. 

" Ceylonica, Dkr. 

" regularis, Dkr. 

Havana. 

Port Natal. 
 ? 

Port Natal. 
 Philippines. 

Malacca. 

Upsolu. 

Moluccas. 

Japan. 

Ceylon. 

Port Natal. 

? 

Moluccas. 

Ceylc 

178 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Novitates Conchologicse. Supplement III. Monographie der 
 MoUuskengattung Venus, by dr. edw. komer. 

2d Part 
 Contains descriptions of species of Tivela, of which the fol- 
 lowing is new : — 

Tivela levidensis, Romer. ? 

3d Part 
 Commences the description of the species of Cytherea, section 
 Meretrix. 

Archiv. fur Naturgeschichte. Berlin, 1864. 

Bericht uher die Leistungen in der Naturgeschichte der Mol- 
 hislcen ■wdhrend des Gahres^ 1863. BY dr. f. h. tros- 
 CHEL. 

Ths list of authors and synopsis of couchological papers is 
 very full in this volume, embracing over 50 pages. The con- 
 tents are divided by — 1st. General and Periodical Works. 2d. 
 Faunas. 3d. Classified Enumeration of Genera and Species. 

DANISH. 

Ofversigt af Kongl. Vetenskaps-Akademiens Forhandlingar. 

Stockholm, 1865. 

On a Land Shell new to Skandinavia. BY J. E. ZETTER- 

STEDT. 

This shell is the BuUmus montanns, Drap. The author 

slates that it is the same as Pupa placida, Say, a species which 

has never been identified by American conchologists. We 

think it not unlikelv that his surmise is a correct one. 

OP coNCHOLoay. 179 

SCIENTIFIC INTELLIGENCE. 

On the Anatomy of Tridacna Elongata. By M. Leon 
 Vaillaat, 

^' IVidacna elongata^ Lam., occurs very abundantly in the 
 Bay of Suez, where it is often employed as food. The author 
 has accordingly been able to examine a great number of indi 
 viduals of this animal. 

" The retractor muscle of the foot, which is of considerable 
 size in proportion to the protractor, serves, in part, for the 
 closure of the valves ; hence it may be that in those Monomy- 
 ary Accphala which have an adductor muscle distinctly di- 
 vided into two parts, the upper portion is to be regarded as 
 representing the retractor of the foot diverted from its normal 
 functions. The byssus of the Iridacna^ already described by 
 Miiller, consists of two parts — one adhering to the bottom of 
 a cavity of the foot, the other uniting this with external 
 bodies. Each of these is secreted by a distinct organ — the 
 former by the bottom of its cavity, the latter by a collection 
 of racemose glands lining a circular groove in the wall of the 
 cavity. The large notches of the margins of the shells enabled 
 the author to ascertain the force which the mollusk is capable 
 of exerting. He fixed an individual by one of its valves, and 
 suspended a weight to the other. In this way he found that 
 a specimen 21 centimetres in length, of which the valves 
 weighed 1.264 kil., could support a weight of 4.914 kilo- 
 grammes ; so that it may be supposed that an individual 
 weighing 250 kilogrammes, and these are not uncommon, 
 might, at a given moment, put out a force of more than 900 
 kilogrammes. 

"In the nervous system, the branchial ganglia, forming a 
 single mass with no trace of longitudinal division, exhibit 
 transverse furrows bounding two i'alse circumvolutions, A 
 sort of inelastic tendon accompanies the connective extended 
 from the branchial ganglion to one of the buccal ganglia 

180 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

during its passage througli the gastro- genital mass. The 
 object of this arrangement appears to be the prevention of the 
 dragging of the nerve when the organ is distended with eggs. 

"Another remarkable arrangement is to be seen in the pas- 
 sage of the last portion of the intestine through the heart. At 
 the entrance of the intestine into the ventricle, there are mus- 
 cular bundles starting from the wall of the latter and inserted 
 perpendicularly into the wall of the digestive tube. At the 
 moment of contraction, these bundles must, by their shorten- 
 ing, tend to draw apart the walls of the intestine, which would 
 otherwise be compressed during the systole, and thus the 
 course of the faecal matters will not be interrupted. In these 
 large mollusks, the difference between the arteries and veins 
 is very easily seen ; the former have a very distinct double 
 epithelial and fibrous wall, whilst the latter are simple sinuses 
 hollowed out in the tissues. All the blood is compelled to 
 traverse an organ of ha^matosis (branchioa or mantle) before 
 returning to the heart. 

" The proper temperature of the animal, compared with that 
 of the bottom at which it lives, appeared to he rather high. 
 The temperature registered by thermometers sunk at the point 
 inhabited by the animals was about 63.°5 F. (17 °5 C). The 
 average temperature of the Tridacnee was 68. °5 F. (20° C.)." 
 — Annals and Magazine of Natural History, XVI., No. 95. 
 November, 1865. (From Comptes Eendus, October 9, 1865.) 

On the Correct Application of Certain Terms used in 
 THE Description of Shells. By Augustus A. Gould, 
 M. D. 

"Taking a common clam for an example, and placing it 
 with the beak uppermost, he showed the position of the en- 
 closed organs, and that the extremity which was in front du- 
 ring locomotion should be called the anterior^ and the opposite 
 the posterior extremity ; that the distance from the beak to the 
 opposite margin should be called the altitude, the distance 
 from the anterior to the posterior extremity the longitudinal 
 diameter, and the distance through from one valve to the 
 opposite the transverse diameter; that the concentric markings 
 of growth should be called longitudinal, in distinction from 
 those which radiate from the beak, to which the name of ver- 
 tical should be applied. The terms equilateral, posterior side, 
 and anterior side, as used, he showed to be peculiarly impro- 
 per, and suggested instead the terms equi]}artite, posterior part, 
 segment or section, etc. Passing then to the common spiral 
 shells through the medium of Limax, Patella, Dentalium, and 

OF CONCIIOLOGY. 181 

Vermetus, he showed that the radiating or spiral striae, in like 
 manner, should be denominated vertical, and those which 
 crossed the single whorls or the concentric lines of growth 
 longitudinal strice; that, in reality, the longitudinal diameter of 
 a shell was the Avidth of the largest whorl at its aperture, and 
 its altitude the length of the unrolled spiral ; and thus the 
 terms used in the description of all shells become identical for 
 analogous parts. For convenience, however, we may speak of 
 the altitude of the spire as distinct from that of the shell, and 
 so of its length ; the anterior extremity and other relative 
 terms were to be determined in this, as in the other instances, 
 by the relation of the shell to the animal when in motion ; and 
 the parts enclosed by the spiral shell should be regarded as 
 simply a hernia of the viscera through the back of the animal. 

'' There were other terms also, which he showed to be un- 
 suitable, having been derived from a false idea of use, or from 
 a fiiociful analogy. Thus, the mouth, and throat, and teeth, 
 and lips of a shell are spoken of, which terms might be allow- 
 able, were it not that there is an animal in all cases which 
 should properly be considered in the full description, and 
 which has all these parts performing their legitimate offices. 
 He pursued the subject in this direction with various examples 
 and suggestions." — Proceedings Boston Society of Natural 
 History, 1865. 

We are very glad that Dr. Gould has called attention to the 
 careless misappropriation of descriptive terms by modern Con- 
 chologists, and trust that every author Avill hereafter carefully 
 select the best, and, at the same time, most descriptive names 
 for the different external features of shells. There are many 
 cases of error that will readily occur to our readers besides 
 those particularized above. One of the most lamentable is 
 the indiscriminate use of terms of different signification in 
 describing the form of shells. Thus, the same shell may be 
 described as fusiform, pupoaform, conical, sub-cylindrical, ele- 
 vated, etc., apparently without any idea of the real meaning of 
 those terms. 

Curious Distortion in the Shell of Physa hetero- 
 STROPiiA. — Through the kindness of Mr. Chas. M. Wheatley, 
 we have had the opportunity to examine a few specimens, 
 half-grown, of the above species. They were collected by 
 Rev. E. C. Bolles at Cape Elizabeth, Maine. He writes re- 
 specting them: "It occurs in great numbers in a little arm of 
 a pond that is the habitat of large and fine specimens of the 
 same shell; perhaps half the little Physas are distorted as you 
 see : the others are well formed." 

182 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

The distortion alluded to consists of sudden enlargement of 
 the -whorl near the aperture, something like Planorhis cam- 
 panulatns, in consequence of which the animal has been 
 unable to continue the usual sutural line, the upper margin of 
 the whorl diverging from the prior one, and making a canali- 
 culate suture. 

Remarks on the Habits of Spirialis Flemingii* By 
 Alex. Agassiz. 
 " They come to the surface of the water about an hour after 
 dusk ; they do not remain long, and after ten o'clock at night 
 were rarely met with. He succeeded only once in finding a 
 few isolated specimens during the heat of the day ; while at 
 full tide, soon after dark, they were very often found in abun- 
 dance. These animals are very easily kept in captivity, and 
 their habits, which can then be carefully watched, may explain, 
 in a very satisfactory manner, their sudden appearance and 
 disappearance. As was already previously known, these ani- 
 mals can creep about by means of their wing-like appendages. 
 When kept in captivity, it was noticed that they but rarely 
 left the bottom during the day, merely rising a few inches and 
 then falling down again to the bottom of the jar. After dark, 
 however, they could all be seen in great activity, moving near 
 the surface of the water as fast as their appendages enabled 
 them. During the day they often remain suspended for hours 
 in the water simply by spreading their wing-like appendages, 
 and then suddenly drop to the bottom on folding them. This 
 habit of remaining at or near the bottom, which they have in 
 common with so many of our marine animals, explains un- 
 doubtedly their appearance and disappearance, as they proba- 
 bly only come to the surface in search of food at certain hours. 
 When the animal is in motion, beating the water like a butter- 
 fly to propel itself forwards or upwards, the shell is carried at 
 right angles, hanging somewhat obliquely to the direction of 
 the movement. To counterbalance this weight, an exceeding- 
 ly long and powerful siphon extends on the opposite side of 
 the animal, which is used as a kind of balance-wheel, the 
 shell, while the animal is in motion, assuming a totally differ- 
 ent position when it is not thus counterbalanced. Mr. Agas- 
 siz exhibited at the same time drawings of the animal in dif- 
 ferent attitudes." — Proceedings Boston Soc. Nat. History, p. 
 15, Sept., 1865. 

* This species occurred in great abundance at Nahant during the sum- 
 mer of 1863. It is the first time that a living Pteropod of this family has 
 besn observed on this coast. 

of concuology. 183 

De Jeude's Collection of Mollusca. 

The fine collection of Mollusca formed by the late Prof. 
 Lithe de Jeiide, for many years Professor of Zoology in the 
 University of Utrecht, has been purchased by Mr. Damon, of 
 Weymouth. The collection, rich in the rare shells of the 
 Moluccas, was displayed in 140 glass cabinets, and formed one 
 of the chief scientific attractions of the city of Utrecht. — Ann. 
 and Mag. Nat. ?Iist., London, Sept., 1865. 

Other Collections of Shells for Sale. 

Dr. E. R. Showalter, Uniontown, Ala., ofters at a moderate 
 price several hundred new species of Unio, Goniohasis^ etc., 
 recently described by Messrs. Lea and Anthony. The specie 
 mens are in very fine condition. (See advertisement.) 

Dr. James C. Parkinson, corner of High and Fourth Streets, 
 Burlington, New Jersey, offers for sale his beautiful collection, 
 principally of showy and valuable marine shells. It contains 
 about 2000 species, many of them very rare. There are in- 
 cluded 2 fine Gyprsea aurora, 4 G. teslndinaria^ 145 species of 
 Gonus, 11 species of Argonauta, etc. 

Godefroy and Sohn, of Hamburg, offer for sale the duplicate 
 shells collected by the Natural History Expedition sent by this 
 enterprising firm to the Samoan and Vitian Islands. There 
 are several hundred species contained in their catalogue, priced 
 very moderately, including the new species of land and fresh- 
 water shells recently described by Mousson in the "Journal 
 de Conchyliologie." Many of the species are preserved in 
 spirits. Address C. D. E. Schmeltz, Jr., Curator, care of Joh. 
 Csesar Godefroy & Sohn, Hamburg. 

Many of the duplicates of Cuming's collection have been 
 acquired by Mr. Gr. B. Sowerby, who offers them for sale. 
 This gentleman has also purchased the stock of the late Lov- 
 ell Reeve. 

The late Charles A. Poulson's collection will shortly be 
 oflfered for sale. 

Helix Liherise^ Brown, described in this Journal, i., p. 136, 
 is a synonym of H. Africana, Pfr. 

184 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Among the large American cabinets of shells must be in- 
 cluded that of Rev. E. R. Beadle, now located at Philadelphia, 
 containing over 10,000 species, including an unusual propor- 
 tion of rare exotic species, collected by himself or missionary 
 friends. 

[From Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences, No. 5, Nov. and 
 Dec, 1865.] 

"REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CONCHOLOGY, 
 For 1865. 

"To the Curators of the Academy of Natural Sciences : — 

"Gentlemen: During the present year the Conchological 
 collection has been increased by the addition of about 1400 
 species (4000 specimens), of which more than one-half are new 
 to us. 

"Among these donations, two deserve especial notice, 
 viz. : — 

" 1st. A collection of 400 species from Mazatlan and Cape 
 St. Lucas. These are named by Mr. Philip P. Carpenter, and 
 the collection is extremely valuable to us from the fact that 
 this gentleman has devoted many years to the special study of 
 the Mollusca of our Pacific Coast. 

"A small portion of this collection was purchased by the 
 Academy, but most of the species were generously presented 
 by Mr. Carpenter, who, in many cases, has contributed the 
 only duplicates of rare species from his own cabinet. 

"2d. We have received from the Smithsonian Institution 
 over 800 species of shells collected by Wilkes' Exploring 
 Expedition. These shells have all been labelled by the late 
 Mr. Hugh Cuming, after comparison with the types in his own 
 collection. Among them are a number of types of new species 
 described by Dr. A. A. Gould, in his 'Report on the Mollusca 
 of the Expedition.' 

" With great satisfaction the Committee announce to you 
 that, with a few trifling exceptions, they have, during the 
 present year, completed the labelling and arrangement of the 
 entire Conchological Collection. The task has been an ardu- 
 ous one ; over 7000 labels have been written, and correspond- 
 ing entries made in the Catalogue during the year. 

'In almost every instance it has been necessary to determine 
 the species by reference to the Library of the Academy. The 
 splendid donations of shells made by the late Dr. T. B. Wilson 
 were accompanied by loose numbers referring to catalogues 
 drawn up by eminent London Conchologists. In the confusion 
 attending the removal of our collection when the last addition 

OF CONCHOLOOY. 185 

was made to our building, nearly all of tliese numbers were so 
 displaced as to be useless. This confusion (certainly unavoid- 
 able, as the Academy has never possessed adequate means to 
 ensure the proper care of its collections) is deeply to be re- 
 gretted, as the Committee have been compelled to substitute 
 their own instead of the original more authentic labels. The 
 Academy has not recently been able to continue to supply its 
 library with Conchological works, which has increased our 
 difficulties. 

"The cabinet now contains upwards of 13,000 species, and 
 is the largest in America. 

"Having no published Catalogue of our collection and its 
 duplicates, a necessary basis for extensive exchanges, the 
 Committee have effected very little in this way. There is 
 probably no other department of the Museum possessing such 
 numerous duplicates, so that the collection could be greatly 
 enlarged by exchanges. 

" The systematic classification of the shells was, until this 
 year, chiefly Lamarckian, but the Committee have substituted 
 for this the more scientific arrangement of recent systematists. 
 At present the marine shells are classified according to the 
 system of Messrs. H. and A. Adams, with modifications ; the 
 terrestrial shells according to that of Dr. Louis Pfeiffer, and 
 the Unionidse and fresh water Gasteropods to those of Messrs. 
 Lea, Binney, and Tryon. The Committee have not been able, 
 however, to exhibit the families and genera in their proper 
 sequence, on account of the over-crowded condition of the 
 cases ; but this can be readily remedied at any time that we 
 possess more space. 

" We also regret the want of space exceedingly, because it 
 debars us from exhibiting those interesting geographical series 
 which, to a naturalist, are not less instructive than a collection 
 of species, enabling us to acquire a knowledge of the limits 
 and variations of species, as determined by climatal and other 
 influences. 

"Nearly double our present space is required for the proper 
 exhibition of the collection which we already possess, and a 
 small appropriation to publish a catalogue would enable us to 
 increase largely and rapidly. 

" AVhile we deem it but right that the Academy, through 
 you, should be made acquainted with our wants, the Commit- 
 tee forbear to press them at this time, being well aware that 
 other departments of the collection require the first and imme- 
 diate pecuniary aid of the Academy. 
 Eespectfullv yours, 

GEORGE W. TRYON, Jr., 

For Committee on Conchologyr 

186 AxMERICAN JOURNAL 

THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 

Those who are interested in the Natural Sciences, and we 
 are sure that all of our readers are so interested, will read the 
 following with great pleasure, and aid its object, if possible. 

"An Address : A sincere desire to learn what was known, and, if pos- 
 sible, to add to the common stock of knowledge concerning animals, plants, 
 the inorganic constituents of the earth, and the laws of the natural forces 
 under which they exist, induced a few gentlemen in this city, a little more 
 than a half century ago, to meet together weekly for mutual instruction. 
 They never supposed themselves to be learned men, but simply students or 
 seekers after knowledge. They considered the study of nature, while re- 
 leased from their avocations, a rational and profitable recreation. Slowly 
 their number increased. 

"It was determined to date the foundation of the institution March 21, 
 1813, and to name it the Academy op Natural Sciences of Philadel- 
 phia 

"The society was incorporated March 24, 1817. 

"The formation of a museum and library, indispensable implements of 
 teachers as well as of learners, was begun in the earliest days of the Acad- 
 emy, Avith donations of a few natural objects and of books from members, 
 each one contributing whatever he could. Both grew slowl}', but with 
 gradually accelerating progress. 

"At this time the museum contains more than two hundred thousand 
 objects of interest. Very many of them cannot be properly exhibited for 
 want of space. In many respects this collection is scarcely surpassed by 
 any other of the kind in the world. There is no display of birds on this 
 Continent comparable to the Academy's, and in Europe not more than one 
 or two equal it. This superb collection is in danger of total destruction 
 from crowding, and from want of means to compensate skilled laborers to 
 keep the skins free from corroding insects. The same remark is applicable 
 to other departments. 

"The museum is open gratuitously, on Tuesdays and Fridays, to the 
 public, from one o'clock P. M. till sunset ; and on other week-days it is 
 resorted to for the purpose of study. Tickets of admission may be obtained 
 from any member of the institution. The visitors on the public days are 
 counted by hundreds. On the last Friday of the year just passed eleven 
 hundred were admitted. 

"The library consists of thirty thousand volumes, and contains some 
 works which are found in no other collection in the United States. It may 
 be consulted by any person introduced or accompanied by a member. It 
 is a library for reference exclusively. 

"The facilities for studying special subjects afforded by the museum and 
 library have proved invaluable to many gentlemen, now distinguished pro- 
 fessors in this and other States of the Republic, while preparing themselves 
 for the professorial career. Many are more competent teachers than they 
 could have been without the existence of this or similar institutions. 

"The Academy has educated competent naturalists, who have accom- 
 panied exploring parties sent out by the Government to ascertain the avail- 
 able natural products, mineral and vegetable, of this and of remote coun- 
 tries. Major Long's expedition to the Rocky Mountains, and the South 
 Sea exploring expedition, for example, as well as every exploring expedi- 
 tion under the auspices of the National Government, and many geological 
 surveys of States, have included members of this institution, whose observa- 
 tions have been of economic value in many respects. The geological 
 survey of California, now in progress, is conducted by members of the 
 Academy. 

"The importance of the natural sciences in a political sense is implied by 
 the fact that institutions for the cultivation of them are sustained by the 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 18t 

most enlightened governments of Christendom. The Jardin des Plantes 
 in Paris, the British Museum and Zoological Gardens in London, and the 
 Smithsonian Institution in Washington, bear ample testimony on this 
 point. Indeed, encouragement of the study of the natural sciences is seen 
 to be greatest in those communities which are most conspicuous for intelli- 
 gence and refinement. And is it wonderful that well-informed peoples 
 should be willing to speed on their way those who are treading paths which 
 have already led to the discovery of the modes of finding coal-basins, me- 
 tallic veins of all kinds, illumination by gas, the utilization of steam, the 
 electric telegraph, to say nothing about manufactures which have their 
 origin in truths acquired only through the study of the natural sciences ? 

"Those who immediately use the library and museum of the Academy 
 are not the sole beneficiaries of the institution. Its periodical publications, 
 the 'Journal of the Academy' and the 'Proceedings of the Academy,' 
 spread a record of its work before the world, and place it in communica- 
 tion with nearly two hundred kindred institutions, established at various 
 points in Europe, Asia, Africa and America. There is no society for the 
 cultivation of the natural sciences in the United States more respected 
 abroad than this Academy. The foreign reputation it has acquired is, in 
 some degree at least, the property of ... . the nation. 

"The beneficial influence of the Academy is not restricted to its mem- 
 bers. It is a prolific source from which usefulness flows far and wide. It 
 may be considered an exemplary institution, because its organization has 
 been imitated in various parts of our country 

" The apartment in which the meetings are held is scarcely large enough 
 for their accommodation. Public lectures on natural science, which have 
 been long in contemplation, have not been delivered by members because 
 there is no room in the hall adapted to the purpose. 

"The revenue of the Academy consists in an annual contribution from 
 each of its members, which, prior to the enhancement of the cost of fuel 
 and the price of labor, was barely suflicient for the expense of warming and 
 lighting the hall. The institution is free from debt, but its means, appli- 
 cable to other purposes than its publications, are very small. The arrange- 
 ment of the museum and library is the result of volunteer labor entirely, 
 the amount of which is not easily appreciated. 

" Such reasons, perhaps too briefly and imperfectly stated, have induced 
 the Academy to appeal to the public for pecuniary aid. A committee has 
 been appointed to solicit subscriptions to a building fund. It is earnestly 
 hoped that its members will be able to report that the generosity of our' 
 enlightened and liberal-minded citizens, largely as it has contributed to 
 various benevolent objects incident to events of the past four years, is stiU 
 large enough to foster the cultivation of the natural sciences by providing 
 means to enable the Academy to purchase a lot of ground of suitable size 
 in a convenient situation, and to erect a building in all respects adapted to 
 its purposes, and at the same time ornamental and creditable. 

"It is conjectured that not less than one hundred thousand dollars will 
 be required to accomplish the object in view. For this reason the payment 
 of subscriptions is made contingent on the whole amount being subscribed 

within the present year Even if the growth of the Academy 

is to be arrested now, as it will be if its appeal to the public shall fail, a 
 considerable increase of revenue will be necessary to preserve it, even in its 
 present condition. 

" The following resolutions were adopted at the annual meeting, Decem- 
 ber 26, 1865 :— 

'■'■Resolved, That a committee, to consist of forty members, be appointed 
 to solicit and receive subscriptions for the purpose of [purchasing a lot and] 
 erecting a new fire-proof building for the use of the Academy. 

'•" Resolved, That they shall prepare and publish a short history of the 
 Academy, its purposes, its usefulness, and its wants, and circulate the same, 
 together with forms of subscription. 

188 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

^'Resolved, That the latter shall be worded so as to make the subscribers 
 liable only in case the aggregate amount subscribed shall equal or exceed 
 one hundred thousand dollars. 

'■'■Resolved, That every subscriber of one thousand dollars or upwards 
 shall receive the thanks of the Society, handsomely engrossed, signed by its 
 officers, and mentioning the amount contributed. That he shall be entitled 
 Cif eligible) to life membership in the Academy, together with free admis- 
 sion to its lectures, and shall receive, free of cost, all its publications for life. 

'■'Resolved, That every subscriber of one hundred dollars and upwards, if 
 he desire it, shall have free admission to the museum of the Academy, and 
 admission to lectures, and the right to purchase our publications on the 
 same terms as members. 

'■'Resolved, That this committee shall report progress at each business 
 meeting of the Academy, and shall pay to the Treasurer of the Academy 
 all moneys received by them, taking his receijit for th£ amounts." 

We are glad to state that the Building-fund Committee are 
 meeting with very fair success in their undertaking, the sub- 
 scriptions already amounting to over $37,000. 

We will take charge of any subscriptions that may be for- 
 warded to us. 

OP CONCnoLOQY. 189 

OBITUARY. 

LOVELL REEVE. 

I regret to have to announce to mv readers the decease of 
 this very zealous and distinguislied Conchologist. He died 
 in London in the Fall of 1865. 

Lovell Reeve was the author of numerous conchological 
 works, some of them possessing the highest merit. We learn 
 from the dedication of his volume on "British Laud and Fresh 
 Water Mollusks," that about 1831 he commenced the study of 
 shells, encouraged by the advice and assistance of Dr. J. E. 
 Gray. Ten years afterwards he published, through Messrs. 
 Longmans & Co., of London, his " Conchologica Systematica," 
 a splendid work, containing, in two volumes, over 300 colored 
 plates. The expense attending this publication was so great 
 that, to use his own words, "the only chance left to me of 
 pursuing the subject was to turn printer and publisher my- 
 self. With a lithographic press, a staff" of print-colorers, a 
 stock of types and a printing-press, the means of production 
 became comparatively easy. During the twenty-two years 
 elapsed since, I have worked nnreraittingly on species, con- 
 sidering them more with regard to the phenomena of distribu- 
 tion than of classification. My ' Conchologia Iconica ' has 
 reached its fourteenth volume and eighteen hundredth plate." 
 "Conchologia Iconica," the largest and most expensive as 
 well as the most useful work ever published on the subject, 
 now embraces monographs of most of the genera. The pub- 
 lication price for the parts issued to this date exceeds one 
 hundred and twenty-five pounds sterling. 

The plates are generally excellent, but the descriptions are 
 mostly very poor, and without the former would be unrelia- 
 ble. The following details of this publication may not prove 
 uninteresting; they are extracted from a recent advertisement 
 of the work : — 

"There is contained in the British Museum, and in the 
 museum of a British naturalist, Mr. Hugh Cuming, a collec- 
 tion of shells quite unrivalled in number of species, variety, 

190 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

and perfection. If all the collections of Europe and America, 
 public and private, were united in one, the series would still 
 be inferior in completeness to the combined collections of the 
 British Museum and Mr. Cuming. Bat the latter is the col- 
 lection par eoccellence. Mr. Cuming possesses from twenty to 
 thirty thousand species and well-marked varieties, illustrated, 
 in most instances, by several specimens, acquired during not 
 less than half a century of untiring personal research. ' Not 
 restricting,' said Professor Owen several years ago, in the 
 'Annals of Natural History,' 'his pursuit to the stores and 
 shops of curiosity-mongers of our seaports, or depending on 
 casual opportunities of obtaining rarities by purchase and 
 exchange, he has devoted more than thirty years of his life in 
 arduous and hazardous personal exertions, dredging, diving, 
 wading, wandering, under the equator and through the tem- 
 perate zones, both north and south, in the Atlantic, in the 
 Pacific, in the Indian Ocean, and among the islands of its rich 
 archipelago, in the labor of collecting from their native seas, 
 shores, lakes, rivers, and forests, the marine, fluviatile, and 
 terrestrial mollusks, sixty thousand of whose shelly .skeletons, 
 external and internal, are accumulated in orderly series in the 
 cabinets with which the floor.-; of his house now groan.' Since 
 this was written, Mr. Cuming has added largely to his collec- 
 tion, and still labors unremittingly, purchasing and inter- 
 changing specimens with collectors in other parts of the 
 world. 

"The 'Conchologia Iconica' was commenced in 1343, as the 
 exponent of this and other English collections of shells, and 
 its publication has proceeded with uninterrupted regularity for 
 twenty years. Part 236, just ready, will complete the Four- 
 teenth Volume. The number of plates contained in these 
 volumes is 1890, comprising not fewer, probably, than 15,000 
 figures of shells of the natural size, all drawn and lithographed 
 by the same characteristic pencil, that of Mr. G. B. Sowerby. 
 The system of nomenclature adopted is that of Lamarck, 
 modified to meet the exigencies of recent discoveries. With 
 the name of the species is given a summary of its leading 
 specific characters in Latin and English. Then the authority 
 for the name is quoted, accompanied by a reference to the 
 work where the species was originally described ; and next in 
 order are its synonyms — the names given to the species by 
 other authors, different from that to which it is entitled by 
 priority, or in consequence of the introduction of an improved 
 system of genera. The habitat of the species is next given, 
 accompanied, where possible, by particulars of the circum- 
 stances under which it is found, such as the nature of the soil, 
 depth, vegetation, etc. ; and to this are added some remark? 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 191 

directing attention to the most obvious distinguishing pecu- 
 liarities of the species, with occasional criticisms on the views 
 of other writers. It is also noted, under each species, in what 
 cabinet, mostly that of Mr. Cuming, the type specimen selected 
 for illustration is preserved. 

"The author's method of proceeding is as follows: Having 
 determined upon a family to monograph, his first step is to 
 select from the Cumingian collection a characteristic series of 
 specimens of all the species of one or more genera, every spe- 
 cimen during the past twenty years having been taken from 
 the cabinet under the supervision of Mr. Cuming himself, who 
 furnishes whatever information he may be in possession of, 
 either from transmitted sources or from individual personal 
 research. This information, committed to paper, is subse- 
 quently sifted and collated with other information, and applied, 
 as the working out of a monograph proceeds, to the respective 
 species. On the completion of a monograph, the particulars 
 of information are generalized, and their bearings on the dif- 
 ferent branches of the study are exhibited in the preliminary 
 observations to each genus. For an elaborate example of 
 what it is intended to convey, the reader is referred to the 
 preliminary observations to genus Terehratnla. For this rea- 
 son the letter-press of Plate I. of each genus is not prepared 
 until the monograph is completed, when it is issued along 
 with the title-page and index. The Cumingian specimens 
 having been selected, a search is then made among the speci- 
 mens of the British Museum and other cabinets for further 
 material, and the views of different authors as to their charac- 
 ters and affinities are examined and compared. The specimens 
 determined upon for illustration are now grouped in plates 
 for the artist; and the stones, when drawn on and printed 
 from, are carefully put away in racks, arranged in alphabet- 
 ical order according to the name of the genus. Many and 
 curious are the details of etching, proving, printing, etc. ; and 
 the statistics of quantity acquire an interest as the work pro- 
 ceeds. The 1890 stones employed up to the present time 
 weigh little short of seventeen tons; placed side by side, they 
 would extend to a distance of more than half a mile ; and it' 
 raised flat one upon another, they would reach to the height 
 of the dome of St. Paul's. The number of impressions printed 
 from these stones is approaching half a million ; and the color- 
 ing is done entirely by hand, forming the livelihood of a 
 family of colorists, who follow their occupation from year to 
 year with an assiduity and interest worthy of a higher branch 
 of art. 

" The mode of publication is to issue monthly a Part con- 
 taining eight plates, price lOs. (or bi-monthly a double Part 

192 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

of sixteen plates, price 20s.), the plates and letter-press being 
 loose in the wrapper for facility of arrangement and referenced 
 Two, sometimes three, genera are taken at a time, for the sake 
 of variety, the publication proceeding with regularity until 
 they are completed. When completed, they are issued sepa- 
 rately as monographs, and when enough monographs have 
 accumulated to form a volume, a title-page is issued for the 
 permanent binding. The publishers undertake the binding of 
 the work, employing a special process, in which sewing is dis- 
 pensed with, to the great advantage and preservation of the 
 plates." 

I do not know whether the deaths of Messrs. Cuming and 
 Reeve will cause the suspension of this gigantic work, but 
 trust that the sale has become sufficiently large to induce its 
 continuance by Mr. Sowerby. 

Mr. Reeve published many papers in the " Proceedings of 
 the Zoological Society of London, and also the following addi- 
 tional separate works: — 

Mollusca of the Voyage of the Samarang. (Adams and 
 Reeve.) 

Elements of Conchology. 2 vols., 8 vo., with 62 colored 
 plates. 

British Land and Fresh Water MoUusks. 12mo., cloth, 
 with woodcut illustrations. 

M. VALENCIENHES. 

This gentleman, for many years Professor of Zoology in the 
 Museum of Natural History, Paris, died on April 13th, 1865, 
 aged 71 years. He was well known to naturalists by his 
 numerous published works and papers, many of which treated 
 of Conchological subjects; among others, the Conchological 
 part of the " Voyage of the Venus." He also furnished de- 
 scriptions of some American species for Humboldt and Bon- 
 pland's ''Recueil des Observations." etc. 

BOUCHARD-CHANTEREAUX. 

This distinguished naturalist is also dead. He published 
 several local catalogues of the Mollusca of Bologne and Pas- 
 de-Calais, and other papers. At the period of his decease he 
 was Director of the Museum of Natural History of Bologne. 

{nunniii Jixini.iJ <>l(,>iH-/H>/<',/\:/,S'li(i. 

Hair a 

L.hiodon M^yidn. Anthony. LLbiodaii suhiiihlmsii.. lnlti<iti\: 

Jia^iSxS- C"'ittlil-ldla 

\ni,-nn,n. foil null ofl onrhofoi/y. /.VoYI 

Plate r 

',;v 

^'}0Yrf(!^ ^'^■^ Ji 

LAuikLhi mmiuitd.. Iiiflitmv ?.T^Tn'o opal nius.Airtbmiy 
 ,'!. (rdfiiolxiMs inn/cinlo Aiillioiiy. 

Aun-rifan Jorirnal i'l' ('dnfholoifl' /(S6l] 

Thlr S. 

\ 

j^ 1 

^ 

Fi^.1 Crcmsutdla aJUi . C'cniraciy 
 „ 2. „ nirta, Conrad 

, :i . 2l£rcenai^iM. ubizisa^. Q)7iraci 
 „ 4'. CrassatcLla plovata Conrad. 

Amtri/Uf// Jfi/maf of ('{nifJu'Lufv /S60 

Rhiif .9 


/ 

/^ 

•3 

i 

^^ 

.■% 

I}^ 7 CyprrjueTia t'rrarianu . Conrad^ 
 „ 2.3. DipUtschvja crelacen. fom^ad 
 ,. 4- .5 Tereiraiiain^i iUosa, Conrtui 

\iiu>ii(aii.l()nni;.l(>r ( •oiicliolo.i v l!l(;(; 

r[;il(« X 


/(>. I',il(,,l,nn .<rn/ii,;.< Jay 

-■r a_-v,na;b y i: . JTsTolaTi 

T3owenSt,Co-lith.Ph[lada. . 

American Journal of Conchology, 1866. 

Plate 

/p^TA/J^ 

Lingual Dentition, 

Fig. 1. Ancylotua prcarosm, Say. Fig. 3. AncyloUis dimmilis, Say. 
 "2. " costatus, Anth. " 4. Goniobasis depygis, Say. 

American Journnl of Gonchology, 1866. 

Plate 12. 

LiNGUAii Dentition. 

Fig. 1. Gyrotoma ovoidea^ Shutll. Fig. 3. Pachyrhilus Iwvissima, Sowb. 
 " 2. To spivosa. Lea. " 4. " Schiedeanvs, Phil. 

SHELLS, FOSSILril MIl Bm 

MR. R. DAMON, OF WEYMOUTH, 

ENGLAKD, 

Invites the attention of amateur and scientific Collectors, Curators of 
 Public Museums, &c., to his stock of EECENT SHELLS, EOSSILS, 
 and MINERALS, which is now one of the largest and most complete in 
 Europe, and obtained in great part direct from the several localities to 
 which they are assigned. 

RECENT SHELLS. 

Erom the numerous consignments received from correspondents and 
 agents in various parts of the world, he is enabled to supply named Col- 
 lections classified Zoologically or Geographically, of which the following 
 is a selection : — 

1000 species, comprising several hundred genera and siib-genera £ s. d. 

(2500 shells) 50 

2000 ditto 

Land and Freshwater Shells of Europe, (500 species) 

Marine Shells of the Meditei-ranean and Adriatic Seas, (250 species) 
 Ditto, Northern and Arctic Seas, (100 species) 

PHILLIPINES — 50 of the handsome species of Helices and Bulimi, from the 
 Phillipines, 4 guineas, or 100 specie^ncluding 70 Helices and Bulimi, with 80 species 
 of Melania, Navicella, Batissa, Bhegiostoma, Leptopoma, Cyclophorus, Sec, £ 8 8s. 

Land Shells of the ISLAND OF JAMAICA, containing the following genera ; 
 Cylindrella, Spiraxis, Geomelania, Stoastoma, Helicina, Trochatella, Lucidella, Pro- 
 serpina, Claiisilia, Helix, CTioanopoma, Cyclostoma, Leptenaria, &c., 50 species, 2l8 j 
 100 cUtto (250 examples), £3 3s.; 200 ditto (500 examples), £8 Ss. 

A set of Land and Freshwater Shells from WESTEEN AFRICA, including 
 the following genera : — Iridina, Galathea, Streptaxis, Amnicola, Pupa, Achatina, 
 Melania, Physopsis, &c., 30 species, 2 guineas. 

From the interior of India: — Otopoma, Leptopoma, Cryptosoma, Megalomasfoma, 
 Pomatias, Diploinmatina, AlyccEtis, Pterocyclos, Streptaxis, Nematura, Camptonyx, 
 Hypselostoma, Scaphtda, Hydroccena, Plectophylis, Lithotis, Cremnohates, Oyclotopsis, 
 4"c., Sfc. 

SHELLS OF PALESTINE.— A collection of Land SheUs, with a few Fresh 
 Water Species, from the Jordan and Sea of Tiberias. (50 species.) 

ISLAND OF CUBA.— About 100 species of Land SheUs. This series con- 
 tains some of the most beautiful Snail SheUs known, and includes Helix imperator, 
 and other rare species of Helix, Helicina, Pupa, Cylindrella, Megalomastoma, 
 Cyclostoma, <^c. 

A few Sets of the SheUs fromMAZATLAN and the GULF OP CALIFORNIA 
 at the foUowing very moderate prices. 50 species for 21s., (or 100 species for 
 £2 12s. 6d.), including a copy of " Carpenter's Catalogue of the Mazatlan SheUs," 
 pubhshed by the British Museixm, Svo., 8s. 

A series of 50 named species (2 of each kind) of the Genus ACHATINELLA, 
 £1 10s. Ditto of 100 species. 

" Genera " to iUustrate " Adam's Genera," " Chenu's Manuel de Conchyliolo- 
 gie." " Woodward's Manual of the MoUusca," 100 genera for £1 10s. j* ditto, 
 select examples, £3.* 

LAND SHELLS.— A coUection from aU parts of the world, 1000 species, 50 gs. 
 •Sets of these have been supplied, and are exhibited at the South Kensington Museum. 

MR. R. DAMON, OF WEYMOUTH, ENGLAND. 

100 good species of Foreign Shells for £2 10s., or 200 species for £5. The 
 smaller kinds represented by several specimens. Well suited to beginners in Con- 
 cliology. 

100 species of Cones 10 guineas. 

100 species of Cyprea 10 guineas. 

In addition to the foregoing a large miscellaneous stock, among 
 whicli will be found many r«re and beautiful examples, every effort being 
 made to secure whatever is new and interesting to collectors. 

(Jdr" Should this circular meet the eye of Naturalists travelling or re- 
 sidents in foreign stations, they are solicited to open a correspondence 
 with E. D., either for the sale or the exchange of their duplicate speci- 
 mens. Instructions for collecting objects in foreign couutries will be 
 gratuitously given on application. 

BRITISH SHELLS. 

E. D. has given much attention to this interesting branch of Con- 
 chology, and by dredging operations conducted on various parts of the 
 English, Irish, and Scotch coasts, he is enabled to supply collections 
 named in accordance with the British " Mollusca " of Forbes and 
 Hanley, or that of the British Conchology, by John C. Jeffreys, Esq , 
 E.R.S., at the following prices, containing on an average 3 of each kind 
 (cJioice specimens): — 

100 species, £2, 12s, 6d.*— 200 species, £6 Gs.*— 300 species, £12 12s.— 400 
 species, £25. 

Elementary set of 100 species (2 of each), 21s . 

A priced Catalogue for single specimens, price 4d. 

FOSSILS. 

The extensive character of his stoct of Eossils enables E. D. to 
 furnish large and comprehensive collections, as indicated by the fol- 
 lowing selection. The names, geological position, and localities of each 
 specimen are carefully given. 

Collections are prepared for those entering on the study of geology, 
 and also to illustrate recent works on the science, at the following prices : 
 Fossils and their i-ocks. 100 dififcreut specimens, £2 ; 200 ditto, £5 ; 500 ditto, 
 £20 ; 1000 ditto, £50. 

POST TERTIARY. 

Sets of Shells from modern deposits in the raised Sea Coast of Sweden. 
 20 species (50 examples) 20s. 

TERTIARY. 

Glacial heds. Englisli Crag — Eed — Coralline -and Norwich 

PLIOCENE of Piedmont. Collections named at the University 
 Museum of Turin, at the following prices : — 100 species (250 examples), 
 £ 3 3s. 200 species £ 6 6s. 300 species £ 

MIOCENE. ICO species (250 examples) from the Vienna Basin, 
 and named at the Imperial Museum at Vienna, £ 3 3s. 200 ditto £ 

60 species of the Miocene fossils of Touraine (150 examples) £1 15s. 

Miocene fossils from the BMne district, Belgium and Bordeaux. 

EOCENE, Eossil shells of the P«ns 5asm, Collections of these 
 beautifully preserved fossils named after Deshayes, 100 species (250 
 examples), £ 3 3s, 200 species (500 examples), £ 6 6s, 300 ditto £ 

* Sets of these have been supplied, and are exhibited at the South Kensington Museum. 

ABEIDaED CATALOGUE OP SHELLS, FOSSILS, AND MINERALS. 3 

JEocene fossils also from tlie following localities : — Isle of Wights 
 Barton Cliff, BrocTcenJmrst, Hempstead, Headon, and BracTclesham. 
 SECONDARY. 

'Fvom i\\Q Maestricht he&'s.. Chalk tmA Glialk Marl {Upper Green 
 Sand of BlacMown) , Green Sand, and GauU of Great Britain, France, 
 and Westphalia. 

OOLITE. ^Portland Stone, SoMenhofen Oolite, Kimeridge Clay, 
 Coral Bag, Oxford Clay, of Christian Mallbrd, Wurtemberg, and Moscow, 
 Cornhrasli, Forest Marble, Great Oolite, Inferior Oolite, and Sands,, LIAS 
 of Dorset and Germany, including Saurian remains, Pishes, Pentacrinite, 
 Sepise, Ammonites, Nautili, &c., &c. Trias and Muschlekalk of Germany. 
 PALAEOZOIC. 

Permian. Carhoniferous or Moufitain Litnestone, of Yorkshire, 
 Ireland and Belgium. Devonian, of South Devon, Scotland, Ehine, and 
 Eifei. Silurian of Dudley, Wales, Bohemia, Sweden, and United States. 

A collection of Tertiary Fossils of 1000 named species (2500 examples), repre- 
 senting the Newer and Older Pliocene. — Upper, Middle^ and Loioer Eocene of Lyell, 
 30 guineas. 

100 species of Cretaceous fossils, 4 guineas ; 200 ditto, 10 guineas. 

100 species of Inferior Oolite ditto, from Dorset and Somerset, 7 guineas. 

300 ditto, representing all the beds of the Upper, Middle, and Lower Oolites, 
 15 guineas. 

100 species of Ammonites, 10 guineas 

200 species of Bracldopoda, single specimens. 5 guineas ; 2 of each, 7 guineas. 

Sets of fossils from the Tertiary beds, 21s, Ditto, Cretaceous, Oolite, Lias, 
 Muschlekalk, Carhoniferous, Devonian, and Silurian, each 21s. the set. 

A collection of all the principal rocks, including Sedimentary, Plu- 
 tonic, and Tolcanic. 100 specimens, each from 4 to 5 in. square £2 5s. 

CASTS OF RARE FOSSILS, 

1. Large head of Icthyosaurus platyodon (jaw, with skull and eye com- 
 plete), from the Blue Lias of Lyme Eegis, Dorset. The original is 
 unique as to size and preservation. Length 5ft. lin. Price £3 13s. 6d. 
 or uncoloured, £ 2 12s. 6d. 

Photographs of Nos. 1, and 2, sent on application, to he returned if 
 a cast is not purchased. 

2. Eore-paddle of Pliosauriis, from the Kimeridge Clay, near Wey- 
 mouth. The original of this unique and gigantic specimen is in the 
 Dorset County Museum, presented by J. C. Mansell, Esq. Only por- 
 tions of an animal of this rare genus of saurians has yet been found. 
 Length of paddle 6ft. 9in. Price of cast, set in case, 5 guineas. 

A cast of this paddle may he seen in the British Museum. 

MINEBALS. 

In this department of science, E. D. has a large stock, to which 
 additions are constantly being made, by visits to the principal mining 
 districts of Europe, and by consignments from numerous correspondents 
 and agents. The Collection being extensive, and always rich in fine and 
 rare examples, Collectors may rely on meeting with specimens not gene- 
 rally obtainable. 

ME. R. DAMON, OF WEYMOUTH. 

lYiriMERALS, COIMTmUED. 

E. D. has lately added to his stock, the well known and beautiful 
 collection of minerals formed by the late J, E. Campbell, Esq., comprising 
 several thousand specimens, all of which were selected with great care 
 and judgment by the late Proprietor. 

As the name and locality of a mineral are of the greatest interest 
 and importance, adding also greatly to its value, B. D. assures his cus- 
 tomers that the name and locality of every specimen in his collection have 
 heen verified hy one or more of the lest mineralogists of the day, 

_ Named, elementary, and other collections supplied, with or without 
 cabinets ; highly instructive to Travellers, Students, and young persons, 
 at a very moderate price. 

100 small specimens, 1 guinea. 

200 in cabinet with drawers, 4 guineas. 

100 larger and carefully selected specimens in a neat and well made cabinet with 
 drawers and divisions for 240 specimens, 4 guineas. 

200 ditto, ditto, ditto, and divisions for 340 specimens, 7 guineas. 

300 ditto, ditto, ditto, with divisions for 432 specimens, and including a set o 
 models of crystals, 12 guineas. 

Collections of larger specimens suited for Museums supplied. 

New Catalogue of Minerals Pubhshed by the British Museum, sent Post free for 2d. 

PUBLICATIONS. 

CATALOGUE OF BEITISH SHELLS, WITH THEIE SYNONYMS and 
 Authorities, including the newly described Species, for Labels 2s. 6d. 
 List of British Crustacea, 2s. 6d. 
 List of British Algce, according to Harvey, 2s. 6d. 
 List of British Ferns, as arranged by Thomas Moore, Esq., F.L.S. Is. 6d. 
 Labels for Foreign Shells, 2s. per 1000 names. Labels for Fossil Shells. 
 Cards of Strata for a systematic arrangement of Rocks and Fossils. Cards of 
 Genera of Recent Shells, for arranging collections. 

A CATALOGUE OF GENERA OF MOLLUSCA, RECENT AND FOSSIL, 
 arranged according to " Woodward's Manual," with the additional Genera. The 
 whole being revised by the aiithor. In large type, printed on one side, 8vo, 5s., 
 available for Generic Labels (3 inches in length.) A few copies printed on cardboard. 

Specimen. PANOP^A Lam. 

Gummed Sheets of small numerals for arranging collections . — 1. 2. 3. 4. &c., &c. 
 WORKS ON NATURAL HISTORY SUPPLIED. 

HANDBOOK TO THE GEOLOGY OF WEYMOUTH AND THE 
 Island of Portland, containing a Map of the District, Geological Sections, Coast 
 Views, Figm-es of the characteristic Fossils, and other Illustrations, with Lists of 
 Objects, and nmnerous Notes on the Botany and Zoology of the Coast and Neigh- 
 bourhood. By R. Damon, F.G.S. Price 5s. London : Stanford, Charuig Cross, 1860. 
 A SUPPLEMENT TO THE ABOVE, CONSISTING OF NINE LITHO- 
 graphic Plates of Fossils, drawn by Bone. Price 2s. 6d. London : Stanford, Charing 
 Cross, 1860. 

Deedges of Galvanised Ieon constetjcted with the Latest Impeovements. 

Small Flat Boxes zvith Glass Tops in various sizes, at per dozen adapted for the 

preservation of objects of natural liistory. 

Strong Card Board Trays at per 100. A sample set of the five sizes, 6d. 

Ml^^i l@m iAK 

1% 

The undersigned, contemplating expensive arrangements for 
 the enlargement of his collection, will supplj^ suites of 
 TERTIARY AND CRETACEOUS FOSSILS, 

AND ALSO OF 
 LAND AND FRESH-WATER SHELLS 

Of Alabama and adjat^ent States, at tlie rale of 30 cents a species, 
 averaging six specimens to each species; representing, when prac- 
 ticable, the dift'erent ages of the land and fresli-water shells. 

The more ponderous lossils will be represented bj single speci- 
 mens, or by pairs. 

For further particulars communications are invited. 

E. R. SHOWALTEE, 

UNIONTOWN, ALABAMA. 

^^7Voi"]5_s on nNT ^txxre.! X3:istor3^^ 

FOR SALE OR EXCHANGE. 

The folhnving BOOKS, duplicates in rn_y Library, are offered 
 B'oR Sale at the annexed pi-ices, or will be Exchaxged for Con 
 chological Works. (GEORGE W. TRYON, Jr., 

No. 625 Market Street, Philadelphia. 
 NATURAL HISTORY OF NKW YORK. 1!) Vols., 4to., newly bound in half Morocco, with many 

huudred Colored Plates $12.") 00 

The following separate Volumes also for sale, in the same binding : 

MAMMALIA. By .T. E DeKay. 33 colored plates 5 00 

ORNITHOLOGY. By J. E. UeKay. SSOop, 141 colored plates 20 00 

HERPETOI.OGY AND ICHTHYOLOGY. By ,1. E. DeKay. 2 Vols,, 400iip. text, 101 colored 

plates 18 00 

ENTOMOLOGY. Hy E. Emmons. 272pp., 47 colored plates 7 50 

AGRICULTURE. By E. Emmons 3 Vols , 770pp , 140 colored plates of Fruits, Vegetables.&c. 26 00 

BOTANY. By J. ToVrey. 2 Vols., lOOOpp., 160 colored plates ! 25 00 

GEOLOGY. 4 Vols., IQOOpp , over 200 plates and maps 25 00 

MINERALOGY. By L C. Beck. 550pp v" 6 00 

CUVIER.REGNE ANIMAL. Vol. I., MAMMALIA, AVES. 8vo, .500pp., 1817 1 r,0 

CRUSTACEANS, INSKCTS. &c 84 'pp., 1S17 2 2.5 

LINN-S:US SYST. NAT. 1.3th Edit. MAMMALIA. AVES. Sfc, 5032pp . 17SS 175 

AMPHIBIA, PISCES. .iOOpp. , 1 788 1 50 

INSECTA. 2 Vols., l.TOOpp. , 17SS 3 CO 

PLANTS. 2 Vols., 1 eeOpp., 1791 2 50 

MINERALS. 47.^pp., 1793 1 QO 

BROT. CATALOGUE SYSTEMAT DE>, MELANIANS. Svo , 72pp. Geneva, 1862 100 

COUTHUOY, J P., DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF SHELLS OF MASSACHUSETTS 

BAY, M0>0GRAP1I OFOSTEODESMACEA. &c 118pp., 8vo., 3 plates ] 7.) 

MIGHELS, J W., CATALOGUE OF THE SHELLS OF MAINE. Svo., 40pp., 1S43 16 

MORCH.O A. L., Catalogue OF SHELLSIN CABINET OF COUNTS DeVOLDI. Svo. 2.5(ipp 100 
 MORELET, A., NOTICE SUR L'HISTOIRE NAT. DES ACORES, AVEC DESCRIPTION DES 

MOLLUSOUES TERRESTRES. 8vo , 214pp., colored plates. (7:5 New Species are 

scribed,) ' 4 00 

ENCYCLOPEDIE METHODIQUE. Zoophytes. By Lamouroux. St. Vincent and Deslon- 

champs. 4to , 1824, 2 Vols., 800pp. text,'l()0 plates 10 00 

BIELZ, FAUNA DEK MOLLUSKEN SIEBESHURGE.NS, 20t pp., Svo. Hermanstadt, (Austria ) 

1863 ........:. ir,o 

GRAY, LESSONS IN BOTANY Svo , cloth. 1859 50 

BOTANY OF NORTHERN UNITED STATES, including MOSSKS, &c. Svo., half Mo- 
 rocco, 18''S 150 

GRAY, STRUCTURAL AND SYSTEMATIC BOTANY. Svo , half Morocco 18.58 ] Co 

DANA, SYSTEM OF MINERALOGY. Svo., 1854. half Morocco, marble edires 2 00 

CON" T K NT T S 

PAGE. 

I. Further Observations on Mr. Gabb's Palaeontology of Califor- 

nia, by T. A. Conrad 97 

'2. Observations on Reeeut and Fossil Shells, with proposed 

new Genera and Species, by T. A. Conrad 101 

'■' . Descriptions of new Species of Tertiary, Cretaceous and Re- 
 cent Shells, by T. A. Conrad 104 

4. Description of a new Species of Unio, by T. A. Conrad 107 

n. Description of a new Species of Vivipara, by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 108 
 (). Descriptions of new Fluviatile Mollusca, by Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Ill 

7. Observations on an Abnormal Specimen of Physa gyrina, by 

George W- Tryon, Jr 114 

8. Monograph of the family Strepomatidse, rconcluded,; by George 

W. Tryon, Jr ' .v^ ; 115 

!). Note on the Lingual Dentition of the Strepomatidse, by George 

"W. Tryon 134 

10. Remarks on the Origin and Distribution of the Opercu- 
 lated Land Shells which inhabit the Continent of North 
 America and the West Indies, (continued, ) by Thomas Bland. 136 

II. Descriptions of new American Fresh- water Shells, by John G. 

Anthony....; 144 

EDITOR'S TABLE. 

Reviews and Summary of Conchological Publications 148 

American. — Review of the Northern Buccininns, by Dr. Win. Stimpson. — Re- 
 print of Conchological Papers, by Isaac Lea. —List of Brachiopoda from the 
 Island of Anticosti, by N. S. Shaler.— Stiuipson's Researches upon the 
 llydrobiime. — Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel 
 ])hia.— Morse's new Species of Pupadse.— Notes on Terrestrial Mollusca, 
 with Descriptions of new Species, by Thomas Bland. — Reperterio fisico- 
 natural de la Isla de Cuba. 

Foreign.. — Conchologia Iconica. — Further Reports on Shetland Dredgiugs, by 
 J. Gwyn Jeffreys. — Transactions of the liinniean Society. — British Con- 
 chology, Vol. 3, by Jeffreys. 

Malacologie d'Aix les Bains, Monographic du genre Paladilhia, et Moitessieria, 
 Mollusques de la Sahara, by J. R. Bourguignat. — Journal de Conchyliologie. 
 — Revue et Magazin de Zoologie. — Malacologie de la Grande-Chartreuse, 
 by Bourguignat. — Malacologie de I'Algerie, by Bourguignat. — Bulletin de 
 r'Academie Imp. des Sciences de St. Petersburg.— Annales des Sciences 
 Naturelles. 

Monographia Pneumonopomorum Viventium.—Ueber die Pamilie der Rissoiden, 
 by Mohrenstern.— NovitatesConchologicie, by Pfeiffer, Dunkerand Romer. 
 — Archiv. fur Naturgeschichte. 

Ofversigt af Kongl. Vetenskaps Akademiens Forhaadlingar, &c. 

Scientific Intelligence 179 

On the Anatomy of Tridacna elongata, by Leon Vaillant. — On the correct 
 Application of Certain Terms used in the Description of Shells, by A. A. 
 Gould, M.D.— Curious Distortion in the Shell of Physa heterostropha.— 
 Remarks on the Habits of Spirialis Flemingii, by Alex. Agassiz.— Collection 
 of Shells for Sale.— Report of the Conchological Committee of the Academy 
 of Natural Sciences.— Address of the Building-lund Committee of the Acad- 
 emy of Natural Sciences, etc. 

Obituary 189 

Lovell Reeve. — M. Valenciennes.— Bouchard-Chautereaux. 

1^ — =^^ 

^ Published Quarterly, at $3 per No., or $iO per Annum. 

Vol. ^, JPart 3. 

AMERICAN 

JOURNAL 

OF 

COIN CHOLOQ^Y. 

j'\xi37- 1, xses. 

EDITED BY 

Member of the Aoademy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; Corresponding Member of the Bostoa 

Society of Katural History, the New York Lyceum of Natural Hlatory, 

the California Academy of Natural Sciences, &c. 

PHILADELPHIA : 
 George W. Tryon, Jr., 625 Market Street. 

N K W y ORK ; BOSTOK : 

Baillxere Brothers, No. 520 Broadway. Little, Brown & Co. 

LONDON : 

TnuByER & Co , No «0 Paternoster Row. 

PAKIS; MADRID: 

J. B. Bailliere et Fils, Rue Hautefeuille. C. Bailli-Bailliere, Calle del Principe. 

BERLIN: 

AsHER & Go., No. 20 Unter d. Linden. 

^'/T^ Ybakel 4 Beo., Printers, 2.3 N. Sixth St. 

•f^'i-O ■ 

wmm WAWiEi §^iiLL§ wmiwD). <, 

CoxcHOLOGiSTSor Dealers having FRESH WATER SHELLS 
 from any part of the world, for sale or exchange, will please for- 
 ward Catalogues of species and prices, to 

CHARLES M. WHEATLEY, 

Jan. 18G5, flyj Phcjenixville, Pennsylvania. 

625 ma.rk:et street, 

PHILADEPHIA, U. S. 

I offer to Conchologists and Collectors, to exchange any of my 
 publications, including the ^'American Journal of Concholoijy,''^ and 
 also my dr*^^^ ■"•'■'" '■^" " '',''■ ' ' >- 

jects or fo] 

I desire 
 quest gentl 
 with price.' 

My stoc 
 dispose of 
 very low 
 the Unitec 

r can oi 

Land ai 

d 

d. 
 Clausilif 

America 

Helix, 1( 
 Marine ' 

f ibrarn of tlje Pwscitm 

OF 

COMPARATIVE ZOOLOGY, 

AT HARVARD COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, MASS. 
 jFouuticTi On ptfbatc subscription, fn 1861. 

Deposited by Louis Agassiz. 

No. 5^^/feA ' 

Shells fo 

NAMING S 
 exchange.) Shell 

CONCHOL<>G._ 
 can J.nu-nal of Conchologr for Octouer. ouu. 

DIRECTIONS FOK SHIPPING.— Gentlemen residing iii Europe are requested to direct to me a.s 
 above, with the addition: — 

'■ In care of the Smithsonian Institution, 
 Washington. I> C," 
 and forward their packages to either of the following book.'^eller.s :—G. Bossange & Co., Paris. Dr. 
 Felix Flugel, Leipzig, Saxony. Wm. Wesley, 2 Queen's Head Passage, Paternoster Row, London. 

America'n correspondents can forward heavy packages by express or rail. Light packages can be 
 forwarded by mail. 

AMERICAN JOUmSTAL OF CONCHOLOGY. 

VOL. I.-1865. 

Containing 400 pages, illustrated by 31 colored and plain plates; with papers by Conrad, Aothoiiy, 
 Bland, Wheatley. Biuney, Newcotnb, Haldenian, Stimps>n, etc. Price in numbers, $12. Or each 
 nnniber sepiratel.v, $:J.60. A few copies, beautifully bound in red morrocco, gilt, bevelled sides, red 
 edges, at* I o. 

Notice. — To those who sub.scribe to Vol. U., the First Volume will be rnrnished at $10, or bound as 
 above, at $12. 

m. 

S.S./V^/^i^.*,.,- /MS. 

•mil a Plioloaraph for tlieAniericaii.rounifLL of Coi uiiolo^y 1866. 

Bowen. t Co KfhTKila 

^M E R I C A N^ 

JOURNAL OF CONCHOLOGY. 

Vol. II. JULY 1, 1866. No. 3. 

DESCRIPTIONS OV NEW SPECIES OF PARTULA, 
 INHABITING THE TAHITIAN ARCHIPELAGO. 

BY W, HAEPER PEASE. 

1. Partula fusca, Pease. 

Description. — T. abbreviato vel oblongo-ovata, soliJiuacula 
 dextrorsa, umbilicata, parum nitida, longitudinaliter striis 
 incrementis subrugata, transversim tenuissim^ striata ; anfr. 5, 
 plano-convexis, nltimus spira superans, subventricosus; aper- 
 tura ovata, suboliqua, labro tenuisculo, plano-reflexo ; omnino 
 intense castanea, interdum fascia flavescente cirigulata, aut 
 flavicante, longitudinaliter fusco strigata, labro fusco-purpureo 
 tincto. 

Dimensions. — Long. 18, diam. 10 mill. 

Shell varies in shape from an abbreviate to an oblong-ovate 
 form, rather solid, dull, dextral, umbilicate, someAvhat rough- 
 ened by fine longitudinal lines of growth, transversely very 
 finely striated, striae becoming obsolete on the body whorl ; 
 aperture ovate, slightly oblique, edentate; lip rather thin, 
 flatly and evenly reflected ; whorls 5, plano-convex, the last 
 slightly ventricose and longer than the spire. AVholly dark 
 chestnut, occasionally a yellowish line or band encircling the 
 last whorl, or yellowish, striped longitudinally and irregularly 
 with chestnut, lip slightly stained with brownish-purple. 

193 

194 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Observations. — The above species is terrestrial in its habits, 
 living on the ground, under rotten logs and decayed leaves ; 
 the animal, in common with all such, is black or of a dark 
 color. It has been referred by Mr. Cuming (together with one 
 much larger in size) to Navirjatoria, Pfr. It differs from that 
 species in shape, size, form of lip and habits, to say nothing of 
 the localities. The above is rare, inhabiting but two small 
 valleys on the island of Kaiatea. 

2. Partula ovalis, Pse. 

T. abbreviato-ovata, conica, solidiuscula, dextrorsa, umbili- 
 cata, longitudinaliter lineis incrementis subrugata, transversim 
 tenuissim^ striata; anfr. 5, plano-convexis, ultimus spira supe- 
 rans, subventricosus; apertura recta, oblonga, auriculata, basi 
 rotund^ angulata ; labro intus calloso, supra medio subdentato ; 
 columella callosa, recta, verticalis, basi angulata intense cas- 
 tanea, lutea fasciata, aut omnino castanea. 

Dimensions. — Long. 20, diam. 11 mill. 

Shell abbreviately ovate, conical, rather thin, dextral, um- 
 bilicate, somewhat roughened longitudinally by fine irregular 
 lines of growth, transversely very finely striated; whorls 5, 
 flatly convex, the last slightly swollen and considerably longer 
 than the spire ; aperture straight, oblong, auriculate, at the 
 base roundly angulate; columella- callous, straight, vertical, 
 angulate at its base ; outer lip callous within ; the callosity not 
 reaching the body whorl, and forming a blunt tooth at its 
 termination. Color, dark chestnut, encircled by a single 
 broad yellowish band, or wholly dark chestnut. 

Observations. — This species is terrestrial in its habits. Eare, 
 confined, to a single valley on the island of Eaiatea. 

3. Partula vittata, Pse. 

Description. — T. pyamidato-oblonga, parum nitida, solida, 
 longitudinaliter rugata, angust5 perforata; anfr. 5, plano-con- 
 vexis, ultimo ad basi subcoarctato ; apertura oblongo ovalis, 
 verticalis, interdum subobliqua, dentata; labro oblique ex- 
 panso, intus calloso, medio tuberculato ; columella vix ex- 
 panso, subcalloso. Intense castanea, flavicante obscur^ fas- 
 ciata, interdum longitudinaliter strigata, rarissimc omnino 
 fulvescente, labro purpurascente tincto. 

Dimensions. — Long. 2-1, diam. 12 mill. 

Shell pyramidally oblong, solid, longitudinally roughly and 
 irregularly striated, closely umbilicate ; whorls 6, flatly convex, 
 the last somewhat contracted at its base ; aperture oblong-oval, 
 vertical, sometimes slightly oblique, dentate ; lip flatly and 

OF CONCnOLOOY. 195 

obliquely expanded, callous within, tuberculated about the 
 middle ; columella but slightly callous and but little expanded. 
 Dark chestnut color, with an indistinct yellowish band, some- 
 times striped longitudinally, rarely wholly yellowish ; lip 
 stained with purple. 

Observations. — A terrestrial species. 

4. Partula citrina, Pse. 

Description. — T. pyramidato-oblonga, solida, nitida, angustc 
 umbilicata; anfr. 5, convexis, sutura marginata; apertura 
 oblongo-ovalis, verticalis ; labro planulatim obliquo, medio 
 versus tuberculatim calloso ; columella superne callosa. Fla- 
 vicante, obscure longitudinaliter strigata. 

Dimensions. — Long. 25, diam. 12 mill. 

Shell pyramidally oblong, solid, shining, closely umbilicate; 
 whorls 5, convex, suture marginated ; aperture oblong-oval, 
 vertical ; lip flatly oblique, tuberculately callous a short dis- 
 tance above the middle; columella callously thickened above. 
 Citron or yellowish horn color, faintly striped longitudinally. 

Ohservations. — The two last-described species have been re- 
 ferred by Mr. Cuming to faha, Martyn. The former of the 
 above is quite distinct, both as to animal and shell. The 
 latter we may eventually class as a var. of faha, which is a 
 very interesting species, passing around the whole island of 
 Eaiatea near the shores, and hybridizing with the species up 
 the valleys, or throwing oft' varieties up the several valleys. 

5. Partula trilineata, Pse. 

Description. — T, elongato-ovata, solida, umbilicata, longi- 
 tudinaUter striis irregularis subrugata, sub lente transversim 
 striata; anfr. 4 J, piano- convexis, sutura subimpressa; apertura 
 subrotunde ovata, vix obliqua, dentata, J longitudinis testae 
 sub^qnans ; labro rotunde incrassato; columella supernd no- 
 dose callosa. Flavicante, spira plerumque rufescente-fulva, 
 anfr. ultimo longitudinaliter castaneo strigato, fasciis tribus 
 intense castaneis cingulato, sutura albida marginata. 

Var. 1. Omnino intense castanea, longitudinaliter strigata, 
 sutura pallidc marginata. 

Var. 2. Omnino flavicante, longitudinaliter strigata. 

Shell elongate ovate, solid, umbilicate, somewhat roughened 
 longitudinally by coarse irregular striae, very finely striated 
 transversely; whorls 4J, flatly convex, suture somewhat im- 
 pressed ; aperture rather roundly ovate, slightly oblique, den- 
 tate, less than one-half the length of the shell ; lip broadly and 
 roundly thickened; columella nodosely callous above. Cream 

196 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

color or yellowisli liorn color, the spire usually reddisli-brown, 
 last wliorl striped irregularly with brown, and encircled by 
 three dark reddish-brown lines or bands, suture marginated 
 with white. 

Var. 1. Wholly dark reddish-brown, striped longitudi- 
 nally, and sutures marginated with white. 
 Var. 2. Plain yellowish, striped longitudinally with light 
 brown, without bands or sutural lines. 

Observations. — The above species from the island of Tahiti, 
 together with one of an analogous form inhabiting the neigh- 
 boring island of Moorea, have been classed by Mr. Cuming 
 with nodosa, Pfr. The localities given for the latter species 
 are Tahiti and Navigators. Our species in all its varieties is 
 conspicuously striped longitudinally^ and, with very few excep- 
 tions, banded transversely. The lip and aperture also differ 
 from nodosa. Specimens from the two localities may have 
 become mixed in the Cumingian collection. 

0. Paetula elongata, Pse. 

Description. — T. elongata, gracilis, turrita, tenui, pellucida, 
 nitida^ sub lent^ transversim tenui striata, longitudinaliter sub- 
 rugosa, angust^ umbilicata ; anfr. 5|, plano-convexis, sutura 
 eubimpressa, rarissim^ marginata ; apertura oblongo-ovalis, 
 parum obliqua, edentata, | longitudinis testte aequans ; labro 
 lequaliter et subrotunde reflexo. Cornea vel pallide rosacea, 
 longitudinaliter strigata, interdum omnino straminea aut albida. 

Var. Castanea bicingulata. 
 Shell elongate, slender, turreted, thin, transparent, shining, 
 transversely very finely striated, somewhat roughened longi- 
 tudinally, narrowly umbilicate; whorls 5 J, flatly convex, 
 suture somewhat impressed, very rarely marginated ; aperture 
 oblong oval, somewhat oblique, edentate, one-half the length 
 of the shell ; lip evenly and somewhat roundly reflected. Horn 
 color or pale rose, striped longitudinally, or wholly straw 
 color. 

A^'ar. Encircled by three chestnut bands, more or less 
 interrupted. 

Observations. — The above species is referred to P. lineata, 
 Less., by Mr. Cuming, which was collected by Lesson, during 
 the voyage of the " Coquille," at Oualan, a small isolated 
 island in Micronesia, 3000 miles from the Tahitian group. 
 The description by Dr. Pfeiffer, in his first Monograph, cor- 
 responds with the true lineata, that, however, in the second, 
 appears to have been drawn up from specimens found at 
 Moorea {Eimeo), where the elongata occurs. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 19Y 

My collection comprises tlic most, if not all, tlie land species 
 of Oualan, and we are confident our species does not inhabit 
 that island, and that lineata is found nowhere else but Oualan. 

7. Partula gracilis, Pse. 

Description. — T. gracilis, oblonga, tenui, turrita, translucida, 
 dextrorsa, albida, transversim creberrim^ striata; anfr. 5, 
 piano-con vexis ; apertura oblonga, edentata, | longitudinis 
 testre sequans, basi producta; labro tenui, cequaliter et oblique 
 expanso. 

Dimensions. — Long. 16, diam. 7 milh 

Shell gracile, oblong, turreted, thin, translucent, dextral, 
 finely and closely striated transversely; whorls 5, planely con- 
 vex ; aperture oblong, edentate, one-half the length of the shell, 
 produced at base ; lip thin, evenly and obliquely expanded. 
 Color whitish. 

Observations. — The above species has been determined by 
 Mr. Cuming to be synonjanous with P. amahilis, Rve., credited 
 to the island of Anaa, one of the Paumotu's. It is evidently 
 a mistake ; we forbear, therefore, any comparison. It is the 
 most delicate and graceful species in our collection, and with- 
 out variety in shape or color.* We may as well remark here 
 in this connection, that no species of Partulse inhabit Anaa, 
 nor, so far as we can learn, any of the Atolls. The land shells 
 on Anaa are Helicina 1 sp., Omphalotroiyis 1 sp., Truncatella 
 1 sp., Tornatellina 2 sp., Bulimulus junceus, Plecotrema mordax, 
 Laimadonta striata, Melampus, 5 sp. Two Helices and one 
 species of Nanina have also been described from that locality, 
 but after a thorough search of two months and a half, none 
 could be found dead or alive. 

8. Partula striolata, Pse. 

Description. — T, abbreviato-ovata, solidiuscula, angustu um- 
 bilicata, transversim striis tenuis creberrime notata ; anfr. 4 J, 
 plano-convexis, sutura plerumque marginata; apertura ovalis, 
 edentata, parum obliqua ; labro angustc, sequaliter, et sub- 
 rotunde incrassato; columella supcrne subnodosc callosa; pal- 
 lide cornea, aut castaueo-cornea, aut castanea, longitudinaliter 
 tenui strigata. 

Var. Earissime fasceis castaneis tribus cingulata. 

* Mr. Reeve remarks that amahilis is peculiar, in wanting the transverse 
 striae common to near all the species of this genus. Our species above is 
 more distinctly striated than any species we have from the Tahitian group 
 of islands. 

198 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Shell shortly ovate, rather solid, narrowly umbilicate, trans- 
 versely marked with fine crowded strife ; whorls 4 J, planely 
 convex, generally marginated at the sutures ; aperture oval, 
 edentate, slightly oblique; columella slightly nodosely callous 
 on upper part. Light horn color, or chestnut horn color, or 
 chestnut, obscurely finely striped longitudinally. 

Yar. Yery rarely encircled by three interrupted chestnut- 
 brown bands. 

Observations. — The above has been referred to decussatula, 
 Pfr., by Mr. Cuming, which inhabits, as reported, the Solomon 
 Islands, but, as we are inclined to believe, the Samoan. Our 
 species is thicker, rather more stout, whorls are not rounded, 
 and the aperture differs from decussatula. 

9. Partula vexillum, Pse. 

Description. — T. subfusiformi-ovata, turrita, umbilicata, so- 
 lida, dextrorsa, parum glabra ; anfr. 5, plano-convexis, sutura 
 bene impressa, interdum marginata ; labro anguste, £Bqualiter 
 et subrotunde incrassato, dextro recto, superne subangulato. 
 Fulvescente cornea, fasciis aut lineis duabus intense castaneis 
 cingulata, plerumque juxta perforationem castanea. 

Dimensions. — Long. 20, diam. 10 mill. 

Shell somewhat fusiformly ovate, turrited, umbilicate, solid, 
 dextral, somewhat glabrous ; whorls 5, planely convex, suture 
 well impressed and sometimes marginated ; aperture ovate, 
 vertical, dentate, rounded at base ; lip narrowly, evenly, and 
 somewhat roundly thickened, straight on its outer edge and 
 slightly angulated above. Yellowish horn color, ornamented 
 with two dark chestnut bands or lines, and generally same 
 color at umbilicus. A single specimen found wholly dark 
 reddish-chestnut. 

Observations. — The above species has been confounded with 
 lineata, Less., as well as elongata, nob., to which refer for my 
 remarks. 

10. Partula stolida, Pse. 

Description. — T. elongato-ovata, dextrorsa, parum nitida, 
 umbilicata, longitudinaliter subrugosa, sub lente transversim 
 striata ; anfr. 5, convexis, sutura impressa ; apertura elongato- 
 ovalis, dentata, interdum edentata ; labro subrotunde incras- 
 sato, Castanea aut olivacea, obscur^ et tenuissime longitudi- 
 naliter strigata. 

Dimensions. — Long. 20, diam. 10|. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 199 

Shell elongcate, ovate, dextral, rather dull, umbilicate, very 
 finely roughened longitudinally and indistinctly under the 
 lens striated transversely; whorls 5, convex; suture impressed ; 
 aperture elongately oval, rather small, not one-half the length 
 of the shell, dentate, rarely edentate ; lip somewhat roundly 
 thickened. Chestnut or olivaceous, obscurely and very finely 
 striped longitudinally. 

Observations. — This species is quite distinct from Vanikoren- 
 sis, Qnoy, to which it has been referred. It is terrestrial in 
 its habits. The shell and animal figured in Am. Expl. Ex. 
 as Vanikorensis is, we are of opinion, a Tahitian species. 

11. Partula crassilabris, Pse. 

Description. — T. globoso-ovata, crassa, parum nitida, trans- 
 versim tenui striata, umbilicata ; aufr. 5, convexis, ultimo sub- 
 ventricoso ; apertura suborbicularis, verticalis, dentata ; labro 
 rotunde incrassata. Flavescente cornea, interdum rufescente 
 fulva, fascia flavescente cingulata. 

Dimensions. — Long. 14, diam. 10 mill. 

Shell globosely ovate, thick, dull, transversely finely stri- 
 ated, umbilicate ; whorls 5, convex, the last somewhat ventri- 
 cose; aperture suborbicular, vertical, dentate; lip roundly 
 callous. Yellowish horn color, sometimes reddish-brown, with 
 a single yellowish band encircling the last whorl. 

Observations. — The above species corresponds with Htbe, 
 Pfr., as to shape, size and form of lip. It is a terrestrial 
 species, while Hebe is strictly arboreal. I hold it to be dis- 
 tinct. 

12. Partula rustica, Pse. 

Descripion. — T. abbreviato, vel elongato-ovata, parum ni- 
 tida, umbilicata, solidiuscula ; anfr. 5, piano-con vexis, ultimo 
 subventricoso ; apertura ovalis, dente parvulo munita ; labro 
 tequaliter rotund^ calloso, parum reflexo; pallide aut intense 
 castanea, rarissimc^ fascia fulvescente cornea cincta, interdum 
 omnino fulvescente cornea. 

Shell stoutly ovate or elongate ovate, dull, umbilicate, rather 
 thin ; whorls 5, plano-convex, the last slightly ventricose ; 
 aperture oval, with a small, indistinct tubercle within; lip 
 evenly and roundly thickened, but slightly reflected, angulate 
 at base of columella. Light or dark chestnut-brown, very 
 rarely with a faint yellowish horn color line or band, some- 
 times wholly of a yellowish horn color. 

Observations. — Terrestrial in its habits. 

200 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

13, Paktula umbilicata, Pse. 

Description. — T. globoso-ovata, solida, parum nitida, late 
 umbilicata, juxta perforationem rotunde angulata, transversim 
 tenuissimt^ striata; anfr. 4|, convexis, ultimo ventricosus ; 
 apertura rotunde ovalis, dentata ; labro intus calloso, oblique 
 piano ; columella callosa, subdentiformis, ad basi angulata. 

Fulvescente aut fuscescente cornea, longitudinaliter obscure 
 strigata, apice plerumque rufescente fusca vel purpurascente, 
 rarissirne omnino intense castanea, aut fulvescente cornea cin- 
 gulata. 

Dimensions. — Long. 18, diam. 12| mill. 

Shell globosely ovate, solid, rather dall, openly umbilicate, 
 roundly angulate at the umbilicus, transversely very finely 
 striated ; whorls 4:|, convex, the last swollen ; aperture roundly 
 oval, dentate ; lip internally thickened, obliquely flat ; colu- 
 mella callous, somewhat dentate, angulate at base. 

Yellowish or brownish horn color, faintly striped longitudi- 
 nally; apex usually reddish-brown or dark purple; seldom 
 wholly dark chestnut-brown ; occasionally with a broad yel- 
 lowish horn color band ; very rarely yellowish horn color, with 
 a chestnut band. 

14. Paetula compacta, Pse. 

Description. — T. elongata ovata, solida, umbilicata, parum 
 nitida, transversim tenui striata ; anfr. 5, plano-couvexis ; aper- 
 tura auriculata, verticalis vel subobliquis, prominente dentata, 
 nd basi angulata ; labro late calloso, angulato ; columella sub- 
 verticalis, incrassata. Fulvescente, interdum omnino rufes- 
 cente fusca, rarissime fascia fulvescente cingulata. 

Dimensions. — Long, 21, diam. 14 J, 

Shell rather elongatelj^ ovate, solid, umbilicate, rather dull, 
 transversely finely striate; whorls 5, plano-convex ; aperture 
 auriculate, vertical or slightly oblique, callous on its inner 
 edge, callosity not reaching the body whorl, angulate near the 
 outer edge; columella much thickened. 

Yellowish, sometimes wholly reddish-brown, and rarely with 
 a broad j^ellowish band, 

Ohservations. — The two last species are analogous forms from 
 the neighboring islands of Kaiatea and Tahaa. They differ in 
 the form of the lip and aperture and somewhat in general 
 shape. 

OF CONCHOLOGY, 201 

15. Partula bilineata, Pse. 

Description. — T. couico-ovata, solida, nitida, umbilicata, 
 transversim tenui striata ; aDfr. 5, sutura vix impressa ; aper- 
 tura ovalis, verticals, forte dentata, ad basin rotundata ; labro 
 incrassato, subangulato, intus calloso ; columella callosa. 

Falvescente cornea, fasciis duabus rufescente fuscis, rarissime 
 fascia lata unica cingulata. 

Dimensions. — Long. 18, diam. 12 mill. 

Shell conically ovate, solid, shining, umbilicate, transvsrsely 
 finely striate; whorls 5, suture somewhat impressed; aperture 
 oval, vertical, strongly dentate, rounded at base ; lip much 
 thickened, very slightly angulate near its outer edge, within 
 callous ; columella callous above. 

Yellowish horn color, with two reddish-brown bands or 
 lines, or very rarely with one very broad band occupying the 
 greater part of the whorl. 

Observations. — The four previous species have been referred 
 to P. auriculata, Brod., which was collected by Mr. Cuming at 
 the Tahitian Islands, and described by Mr. Broderip in Proc. 
 Zool. Soc, 1832. The locality given, Huaheiue, is incorrect. 
 Our collection from that island is very large, comprising shells 
 from every valley, all of which are of one type, that repre- 
 sented by P. rosea, Brod., and are quite distinct from those 
 inhabiting the other islands of the group. The species of 
 strictly auriculate shape of aperture are confined to Eaiatea 
 and the nearlj^-connected island called Tahaa. It is not im- 
 probable that Mr. Broderip had before him more than one 
 species when he drew up his description. The variety he 
 mentions is probably a ground species. 

All authors since have placed the auticulata as a variety of 
 P. Oiaheitana, Brug. The nine figures given by Deshayes in 
 Ferrusac's large work, are all from species inhabiting the 
 island of Tahiti, and none of them approach P. auriculata. 

Figures 11a and lib, by Eeeve, are undoubtedly from 
 Eaiatea, and one of them should be retained as the auriculata. 
 Figure lie is crassilabris, nob., described above. It is a ter- 
 restrial species from Eaiatea. Dr. Pfeiffer, in his first Mono- 
 graph, includes auriculata with Otaheitana, but in his last 
 omits it altogether. I would observe, that there is a very 
 rare dwarf variety of Otaheitana somewhat approaching the 
 latter figure by Eeeve, but it is of the normal shape of that 
 species, and always sinistral. Figures 13a and 13b are from 
 the island of Tahiti. We have named it sinistrorsa, although 
 Mr. Cuming places it as a variety of ruhescens, Eve. The lat- 
 ter species we consider the real type of Otaheitana. 

202 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

16. Partula simulans, Pse. 

Description. — T. elongato-ovata, solicliuscula, parum nitida, 

transversim tenui striata; anfr. 5, convexis, interdum margin- 

atis; apertura vix obliqua, oblongo ovalis ; labro subrotundato, 

edentate. Pallide rufescente fusca, vel cornea, vel fulvescente. 

Yar. Fasciis tribus, interruptis, cingulata. 

Dimensions. — Long, 17, diam. 10. 

Shell elongately ovate, ratber solid and dull, finely striated 
 transversely ; whorls 5, convex, sometimes marginated ; aper- 
 ture somewhat oblique, oblong oval ; lip flatly rounded, eden- 
 tate. Color plain reddish-brown or yellowish or horn color. 
 Yar. Three interrupted transverse bands. 

Observations. — 'The above species is decidedly not tseniata, 
 Morch, from the Fiigii's. It is closely allied to P. elongata, 
 Pse., but is shorter, thicker, lip more flat and wider, and colors 
 more plain. 

17. Partula fasciata, Pse. 

Description. — T. elongato-ovata, turrita, solidiuscula, sordida, 
 nmbilicata, conferte et tenuissime transversim ragoso striata ; 
 anfr. 5, rotundato-convexis, ultimo ventricoso, sutura bene im- 
 pressa; perist. late expanso et reflexo; columella lata, superne 
 subcallosa; apertura oblongo-ovalis. Alba, epidermide fus- 
 cescente rufa vel olivacea induta, ad suturam nuda. 

Dimensions. — Long. 22, diam. 12 mill. 

Shell elongate ovate, turrited, rather solid, dull, umbilicate, 
 closely and very finely rugosely striated transversely ; whorls 
 5, roundly convex, last ventricose ; suture well impressed ; 
 peristome widely expanded and reflexed; columella wide, 
 above slightly callous ; aperture oblong oval. 

"White, covered with a brownish-red or olivaceous epidermis, 
 except at the sutures. The epidermis is liable to peel off. 

Observations. — -This species is from Marquesas Islands, and 
 quite distinct from any of the Tahitian forms. 

As it has been referred by Mr. Cuming to Ganymedes, Pfr., 
 I fear some change has taken place in labels, or I have given 
 tlie same name to two species in sending to that gentleman. 

OP coNcnoLooY. 203 

18. Partula variabilis, Pse. 

Description. — T. oblongo-ovata, soliJa, parum nitida, um- 
 bilicata; anfr. 5 — 6, piano-con vexis, longitudinaliter tenui et 
 rugosim striata ; apertura oblongo-ovalis. ad basi contracta ; 
 labro piano rotundato, vix callosa ; columella recta. 

Pallide castanea aut fulvescente cornea, longitudinaliter 
 rufescente fuscis irregulariter strigata. _ 

Omnino rufescente fusca, interdum fascia lata fulvescente cor- 
 nea cingulata. 

Straminea. 

Dimensions. — Long. 22, diam. 13 mill. 

Shell oblong ovate, solid, rather dull, umbilicate ; wliorls 5 
 or 6, flatly convex, rugosely and finely striated longitudinally; 
 aperture oblong oval, narrow at base ; lip flatly rounded, 
 slightly callous on outer lip; columella straight. 

Color, light chestnut or yellow horn color, with irregular 
 reddish-brown longitudinal stripes. 

Plain dark reddish-brown, sometimes with a broad yellowish 
 horn color band. 

Wholly straw color. 

Observatio7is. — Neither the above nor fusca, Pse., are the 
 Navigatoria, Pfr. This species is more elongate than the 
 fusca, Pse., and differs also from that species in the form of 
 its lip. 

[To be continued.] 

204 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

EEMARKS ON NUDIBRANCHIATA INHABITING THE 

PACIFIC ISLANDS, WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF 

TWO NEW GENERA. 

BY W. HAEPER PEASE. 

Genus GONIOBRANCHUS, Pease. 

DescrijMon. — Corpus, depressum, oblongo-ovale, subgelati- 
 nosum, pes elongatum, postice ultra pallium extensum ; teu- 
 taculaB cervicales, retractilis, lamiuatis ; branchiis simplicis, 
 linearibus, elongato-lanceolatis, quadrangularis, transversa 
 laminatis, retractilis, interdum bifurcatis. 

Remarhs. — The chief peculiarity of this genus is the form 
 of its branchiae; they are simple, linear, of an elongate lance- 
 olate shape, and quadrangular, usually slightly compressed, so 
 that two sides are rather wider ; those sides are finely and 
 delicately laminated. The branchias are united at their base, 
 and on one species bifurcate. To this genus should be referred 
 Doris vibrata, Pse., 2^'>'0]nnquata, Pse., and 2>ic^<^, Pse., Proc. 
 Zool. Soc, 1860; also Doris 2nilchra, Pse., Proc. Zool. Soc, 
 1861. The branchiis of the first three were described as being 
 ciliated on their edges. On close examination of larger spe- 
 cies, the ciliiB prove to be the extension of the laminte beyond 
 the edges ; consequently those descriptions should be corrected 
 to read "laminated," instead of "ciliated." 

We add two new species as follows : — 

GONIOBRANCHUS ALBOMACULATUS, Pse. 

Descrii^tion. — Animal elongate oval, convexly depressed; 
 mantle rounded at either end, rather the widest at the middle, 
 upper surface covered with depressed tubercles of irregular 
 shape and size, and of a whitish color. Margins of the mantle 
 thin and slightly gashed, anteriorly slightly dilated when in 
 motion ; cervical tentacles, arising from short, swollen bases, 
 are large, elongate, cylindrical, tapering to acute tips, some- 
 what obliquely, delicately laminated ; labial tentacles cylindri- 
 cal, finger-shaped, rather long; branchias suberect, six or 
 seven in number, rather large, retractile into a tubular cavity, 
 laminae fine and close ; vent central, consisting of a short coni- 

OF CONCnOLOGY. 205 

cal tube ; foot elongate oblong, transversely fissured in front ; 
 genital organs on the right side, a short distanee posterior to 
 the cervical tentacles. Color orange-yellow, margin bright 
 violet, shading oft' into the ground color, tubercles whitish, 
 cervical tentacles, branchia), and under surface cream white. 
 Length 2 inches. 

GONIOBRANCIIUS RETICULATU3, Pse. — t. 14, fig. 1. 

Description. — Animal oblong-oval, mantle depressly convex, 
 widest at the middle, similarly rounded at either extremity ; 
 margins thin, entirely covering the foot, the upper surface 
 covered with remote, indistinct, small, depressed tubercles ; 
 cervical tentacles small, oblong-ovate, obliquely laminate and 
 retractile into simple cavities ; labial tentacles cylindrical, 
 tapering; branchite small, suberect, twelve in number, two or 
 three bifurcate, retractile into a simple cavity ; vent consisting 
 of a simple, slightly prominent orifice. Color cream-white, 
 upper surface of the mantle minutely reticulated with brick- 
 red lines, margined with orange and a white submarginal 
 narrow band ; tentacles brown, edges of the laminee pure 
 white ; labial tentacles tipped Avith orange ; branchias cherry- 
 red, under surface watery white; mantle and foot margined 
 with orange. 

Length 2| inches. 

Genus STENODORIS, Pease. 

Description. — Corpus elongatum, angustum, non palliatum, 
 antice cuspidatum, postice compressum, attenuatum, posteriore 
 tentacul^e utrinque oblique incisum, dorso rotundate convexo; 
 branchiae parvis, plumosae, bipinnatis, subretractilis, postice in 
 linea media dorsi anum circumdantes ; tentaculte cervicales, 
 anteriore, vix comprcssis, ovatis, oblique lamellatis, subretrac- 
 tilis; pes angustus, elongatus, antice truncatus, ora utrinque 
 lobata ; oculis distinctis, ad basin tentaculte. 

This genus is of very simple form ; the body is soft, nar- 
 row, elongate, tapering to a point anteriorly, posteriorly com- 
 pressed and elongate, no mantle or lateral fissure ; tentacles 
 far anterior, a short distance behind them the body is deeply 
 incised on either side, thus forming a cephalic disk ; they are 
 closely approximating, of an ovate form, obliquely lamellated 
 and subretractile into simple orifices ; branchire small, sub- 
 retractile, bipinnate, posterior to the middle, surrounding the 
 vent ; mouth between the locomotive and cephalic disks and 
 provided with a pair of lobes; foot truncate in front, extend- 
 ing to the posterior end of cephalic disk ; eyes appear to be 
 immersed in the bases of the tentacles. 

20G AMERICAN JOURNAL 

STENODORIS RUBRA, Pse. — t. 14, fig. 2. 

Description. — Animal rounded above, subpellucid, covered 
 with rather remote light red papillce ; tentacles moderately 
 developed, somewhat laterally compressed ; branchise twelve, 
 forming a beautiful rosette, not extending over the margin of 
 the body. Color pale vermilion, branchiie and interstices of 
 tentacular lamellas bright vermilion. 

Length 1 inch. 

Genus LOBIFERA, Pease. 

In Proc. Zool. Soc, 1860, we established a genus under the 
 name of Polyhranchia. Being convinced that I was mistaken 
 as to the lobes enclosing true branchijB, however closely the 
 radiating lines may have resembled them, that name becomes 
 a misnomer, and we consequently have adopted the above. 
 We are gratified ia being able to add two species, which fully 
 confirm the genus. 

LOBIFERA NIGRICANS, PsC. 

Description. — Body elongate, tapering, smooth, arched above; 
 lobes large, crowded, fan shape, not extending over the ante- 
 rior portion of the body ; head Avell developed, rounded in 
 front; tentacles long; labial tentacles projecting laterally; 
 edge of the mouth wrinkled ; foot grooved transversely, the 
 anterior portion broader than long, truncately rounded in 
 front ; the posterior portion is much the largest and longer, of 
 an ovate oblong form. Color deep velvet black, foot pale 
 slate, margined with yellow ; the head and body is traversed 
 by a medial stripe, and also irregularly spotted with the same 
 color ; also a stripe of the same along the sides near the foot ; 
 cervical tentacles lineated with the same, the lobes ornamented 
 with an infra-marginal band, and studded with a few raised 
 dots of the same color ; labial tentacles with a narrow pale 
 blue margin. 

Length IJ inches. 

LOBIFERA PAPILLOSA, Pse. 

Description. — Body widest anterior to the middle, tapering 
 rapidly posteriorly; lobes orbicular, thin, ciliated, covered with 
 small remote papillie and denticular vascular dots ; cervical 
 tentacles long, bifid at their outer third, remotely papillose, 
 approximating at their bases; labial tentacles stout and rather 
 short; foot very thin, auriculate and obtusely rounded in 
 front, tapering rapidly to a delicate point behind; heart can 
 be seen to pulsate a liitle anterior to the middle of the back ; 
 vent a prominent tubercle on the right side, just below the 
 heart; eyes immersed between the posterior bases of the ten- 

OP ooNcnoLoaY. 207 

tacles. Color, lobes olivaceous, clouded with olive-brown ; 
 cervical tentacles pale, pellucid, olivaceous, freckled with 
 dusky ; foot pale olivaceous, punctured with white and dusky. 
 Length 3 inches. 

Genus CHROMODORIS, Alder and Hancock. 

This genus, established by Alder and Hancock, is repre- 
 sented on the islands of the Pacific by a large number of 
 species. To it should be referred Doris dorsalis, Gld. ; also 
 D. decora and D. marginata, Pse. Proc. Zool. Soc, 1860. 

The species deviate but little from the generic type, and 
 fully confirm the genus. The body is elongate, somewhat 
 slender, slightly dilated anteriorly and rounded posteriorly. 
 The foot is narrow, extending some distance beyond the man- 
 tle posteriorly, and usually tapering to a point. The tentacles, 
 as well as. the branchia?, are retractile ; the latter are small, 
 not extending over the edges of the mantle. All the species 
 are lineated or marginated with bright colors, but seldom 
 spotted. 

Genus ACLESIA, Rang. 
 Having had opportunity of examining several species of the 
 above genus, we learn that they deviate but little from a com- 
 mon type. They are distinguished chiefly by the cirrhi which 
 are spread over their bodies, and the ocellated spots, usually 
 of blue or greenish centres, with which they are painted. 
 (Colors r^Tid the style of their distribution may be classed as 
 generic characters in many of the groups of Nudibrauchiata.) 
 They are gregarious in their habits, and live on sea weed. 
 The corners of their heads, consequently, assume a tentacular 
 form, quite elongate on some species, to enable them to grasp 
 the sea weed ; while at rest, they are withdrawn and the head 
 is round or slightly dilated. Stylocheilus, Gld., we consider 
 synonymous with this genus. The notes of Quoy and Gai- 
 mard on A. lonrjicauda agree with our observations, and the 
 drawing furnished Dr. Gould was taken, as they state, from 
 the animal in motion. 

ACLESIA PKODUCTA, Pse, 

Description. — Animal elongate, subpellucid, smooth ; cirrhi 
 remote, simple or branched; lobes short and rounded about 
 midway between the end of the foot and the head. Branchiae 
 large, arborescent, exposed ; vent prominent; tentacles long, 
 rather slender, of nearly equal length, the upper pair truncate 
 and grooved laterally half their length ; lips furnished with 
 lateral tentacular lobes ; eyes rather nearer to the posterior 
 than anterior tentacles; foot narrow, elongate. Color pale 

208 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

greenish-grey, clouded with dusky black, nnd more or less 
 powdered with small patches of opaque white minute dots. 
 The whole surface, except the sole of the foot, is beautifully 
 veined with blackish-brown, the veins crowded, and running 
 in an irregular manner longitudinally ; decorated with remote 
 oscillations, with briWiant light blue pupils, the iris deep 
 brown, and encircled with ochre-yellow shadings ; cirrhi pale, 
 sole of the foot powdered with minute irregular flakes of white 
 and pale brown, which, under the lens, are composed of clus- 
 ters of minute dots. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 209 

DESCRIPTIONS OP ACHATINELL^. 

[From Zoological Proceedings, London ; Annals of Lyceum Nat. Hist., 
 New York ; Proc. Boston Nat. Hist. Society and Proc. California Acad. 
 Nat. Sciences, with original remarks and figures not before published. ] 

BY W. NEWCOMB, M. D. 

In a genus wliich numbers nearly two hundred species, it 
 becomes a matter of much importance to call in the aid of 
 figures, as well as descriptions for their correct identification. 
 The editor of the American Journal of Conch ology having 
 offered to give illustrations of species described in the several 
 publications named above, I avail myself of the opportunity 
 to aid in the determination of species that previously may 
 have (to some naturalists) been in doubt. 

The published descriptions are repeated, with reference to 
 the plate, and some original remarks are subjoined. 

1. AcHATiNELLA Kauaiensis, Newcomb. 

Annals of the Lyceum Nat. Hist., New York, April, 1860. 
 Plate 13, fig. 1. 

Description. — Shell imperforate, dextral, trochiform, solid, 
 strongly striated and decussated, above blackish-brown, the 
 carina and base dirty white colored; suture crenulated; 7 
 whorls, flatly convex, the last with a cord-like keel in the 
 middle ; aperture irregularly quadrate ; columella short, twist- 
 ed, with one fold. 

Long, /o, lat. /o inch. Aperturse long. ^^, lat. f'^^ inch. 

Habitat. — Kauai, Sandwich Islands. 

Remarks. — This is undoubtedly one of the most singular 
 forms presented in the genus, and of extreme rarity. The 
 specimen selected for the figure varies from the type in being- 
 provided upon the back of the last whorl with three instead of 
 but one keel. Kauai is the most eastern of the large islands 
 of the Sandwich Island group, and by geologists is considered 
 as the oldest in the series ; and it is worthy of remark that not 
 a typical arboreal species of this genus has been met with, nor 
 one ornamented with a variety of painted patterns, as upon the 
 islands farther west. 

210 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

2. AcHATiNELLA Anthonii, Newcomb. 

Proceedings Cal. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1861, page 93. 

Plate 13, fig. 2. 

Description. — Shell conically ovate, solid, blackisli-brown, 
 .longitudinally striate ; wliorls 6, inflated ; suture moderately 
 impressed ; apex obtuse ; aperture obliquely ovate, subangu- 
 late below; lip simple, thickened within; columella short, 
 straight, with a somewhat callous plication below the middle. 
 "White banded below the suture, and of a dirty white in the 
 umbilical region. 

Remarks. — Excepting in size, and in being more ventricose, 
 this species makes a near approach to A. nucleola^ Gould. It 
 is more than quadruple the size of nucleoid, and not acute at 
 the summit, by which it can be at once distinguished from 
 that species. For this and the preceding species I am in- 
 debted to the Rev. Mr. Johnson, of Koloa. It is named after 
 the eminent naturalist, John Gr. Anthony, Esq., of Cincinnati, 
 Ohio. 

The specimen selected for figuring is more obese than usual, 
 and less elongated. A well-marked variety has the last whorl 
 of a pale straw color. 

3. ACHATINELLA NIGRA, NeWCOmb. 

Proceedings Boston Nat. Hist. Soc, July, 1855. 
 Plate 13, fig. B. 

Description. — Shell dextral, globosely acuminate, rather 
 solid ; the two lower whorls inflated, the superior ones sub- 
 ulate; whorls 6, the last two cat up on the surface into rude 
 cicatrices by longitudinal stria3, crossed by revolving eleva- 
 tions, irregularly distributed ; superior whorls flattened, with 
 closely-crowded, strong, longitudinal strias ; suture simple, well 
 impressed ; aperture round ovate ; columella short, terminating 
 in a lamellar tooth. Color yellowish-white, with a thin black 
 epidermis. 

Long. '70 lat., '45 inch. 

EaUtat. — E. Maui. 

Remarks. — This species occupies an intermediate space be- 
 tween A. ohesa, nob., and A. Kauaiensis, In adult specimens 
 the lip within is thickened by a heavy white deposit, and the 
 tooth from the same cause changes from a lamellar to a nodu- 
 lous form, as in the specimen figured. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 211 

•i, ACIIATINELLA HUMILIS, NewCOmb. 

Ann. New York Lyceum Nat. Hist., Sept., 1855. 
 Plate 13, fig. 4. 

DescrijUlon. — Shell clongatelj conical, longitudinally rudely 
 striate ; whorls 7, rounded above, flattened centrally, last one 
 obscurely carinated superiorly; suture deep, simple; apex 
 acute ; aperture subrotund ; lip acute, slightly thickened with- 
 in ; columella flattened with a thick plait. Color of shell pale 
 salmon, covered with a densely black epidermis ; columella 
 and a deep margin of the outer lip within dark brown ; inte- 
 rior of aperture bluish- white. 

Long. '4; lat. j'gin. 

Habitat. — Kalai, Molokai. On the ground, under low 
 bushes. 

Remarks. — We have very little variety to note in this spe- 
 cies, which was obtained in considerable numbers at the 
 locality mentioned above on only one occasion. Subsequent 
 researches of the same ground failed in obtaining specimens. 

5. ACHATINELLA PUSILLA, NcWCOmb. 

Ann. N. Y. Lye, Sept., 1855. 

Acliatinella pulla, Newc. Zoolog. Proc, London, Nov. 
 1855, page 209. 

Plate 13, fig. 5. 

Description. — Shell dextral, conically ovate; apex acute; 
 whorls 6, plano-convex ; suture above but lightly impressed, 
 below strongly marked ; lip simple ; columella short, with a 
 twisted plait ; epidermis light brown, often encircled by nar- 
 row white bands. 

Long, l^ ; lat. t^^ inch, var major. 
 2 J 3 mmor. 

Habitat. — Ranai. 

Remarks. — The double name of pusillu and jndla was in 
 consequence of Dr. Pfeiffer, of Cassel, publishing in my name 
 several species which I had forwarded Mr. Cuming, in Zool. 
 Proc, without knowing that they were already described by 
 me in the Annals of the N. Y. Lyceum. The specimens were 
 probably forwarded under the name given by Dr. Pfeiffer. 

6. ACHATINELLA PETRICOLA, NeWCOmb. 

Annals Lye. Nat. Hist., New York, Sept., 1855. 

Achatinella umbilicata, Pfr. Zool. Proc, London, Nov., 
 1855. 

Plate 13, fiff. 6. 

212 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Descriptioyi. — Sliell dextral, acutely conical, longitudinally 
 coarsely striate; whorls 6, rounded, sometimes the last one 
 inflated ; suture simple, well impressed ; aperture ovate ; lip 
 acute, slightly thickened within ; columella rather long, with 
 a sub-central revolving plait ; often with an umbilicus. Color 
 dark corneous, outer and columellar lips margined externally 
 with white or yellowish-white. 
 Long. -5, lat. -25 inch. 

Ralitat. — Molokai, on the rocky sides of a Pali or precipice. 
 Remarks. — Specimens of this species vary suf&ciently in the 
 umbilical region, perhaps, to warrant their separation. Dr. 
 Pfeiffer, the highest possible authority, has founded his species 
 upon what I consider but a variety with a very open umbili- 
 cus, of which the figure furnishes a typical illustration. There 
 is, however, such a gradation between different specimens with 
 an open umbilicus and those which are closed, that I have 
 not found it possible to draw a line between the two extremes, 
 to determine where one ceases to be my petricola and becomes 
 the typical umbilicafa of Dr. Pfeiffer, 

It may not, perhaps, be entirely uninteresting to Naturalists 
 to know the reason of the specific name given to this little 
 shell, which, to the author, recalls a scene of thrilling interest. 
 On the island of Molokai, as on some others of the Hawaian 
 group, may be found, in the mountain regions, deep gorges 
 inaccessible to man, with precipices of two thousand feet or 
 more, requiring to be scaled to reach the deep, dark, narrow 
 vale which some convulsion of nature has opened in the moun- 
 tain ridge. On such a mountain, so densely covered with 
 bushes four or five feet high, dead specimens of what Avas at 
 once detected as an unknown species were fou.nd. Desirous 
 of obtaining a supply, the writer determined upon making his 
 way over the bushes to an apparent opening a few rods distant. 
 In effecting this object, the branches of a friendly Tutui tree 
 were seized and used to drag the body forward. The opening 
 was reached, but, to my surprise, my body was poising itself 
 over a precipice, which, to my startled imagination, knew no 
 bottom. Eesting on the yielding tops of the bushes, with no 
 support but the friendly Tutui branch, the position was one 
 that called for immediate and decided retrograde action, which 
 was, fortunately, effected in safety. On the rocks which formed 
 the upper rim of the precipice some twenty or more specimens 
 were obtained, and no shells in my cabinet have a stronger 
 claim on my aftectionate regard than these plain AchatineUse, 
 which live above the clouds on the bushy cliff and along the 
 stony rim of this terrible precipice. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 213 

7. AcnATi]>TELLA succixcTA, Newcomb. 

Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., July, 1855. 
 Plate 13, fig. 7. 

Descrijjtion. — Sbell obesely conoid, tliin, shining, corneous, 
 longitudinally striate ; whorls 7, flatly convex, slightly rugose 
 above, not margined ; suture but slightly impressed ; aperture 
 broadly ovate; columella deeply excavated, short, terminating 
 in a broad plicate tooth ; lip simple, slightly thickened within, 
 with or without a broad obsolete white or brown central band 
 on the last whorl, or a fine revolving sutural line of the same 
 colors. 

Long, y^ ; lat. |^^ poll. 

Sahitat. — Ewa, Oahu. 

Remarks. — This species is the most obese of the Leptaclia- 
 tinse, a sub-genus established by Dr. Gould and adopted by 
 Dr. Pfeiffer. The specimen figured has a broad reddish-brown 
 band around the body whorl, and extending around the whorl 
 above, near the suture. 

8. ACHATINELLA FUSOIDEA, Newcomb. 

Annals, &c., 1855. 

Plate 13, fig. 8. 

Descrijjtion. — Shell sinistral, rather solid, elongately pro- 
 duced ; whorls 6-7, scarcely rounded (excepting the last), mar- 
 gined above ; suture well impressed ; aperture roundly ovate, 
 small ; columella very short, robust and twisted ; lip simple 
 above, slightly expanded below. Color, straw yellow. 

Long. 11; lat. i;|poll. 

Halitat. — E. Maui. 

Remarks. — This is an exceedingly rare species, but two spe- 
 cimens having come under my observation, one of which serves 
 for the illustration, the other in the cabinet of the late Hugh 
 Cuming, in London. 

9. AciiATiNELLA DwiGHTii, Newcomb. 

Annals, &c., 1855. Eepublished by Dr. Pfeiffer in Zool. 
 Proc, Nov., 1855. 

Plate 13, fig. 9. 

Description. — Shell oblong conical, sinistral, solid ; surface 
 covered with oblique longitudinal strias, cut across by very 
 numerous fine, slightly undulating cross striae ; whorls 6, flatly 
 convex, crenulated at the sutures ; suture simple, well marked; 
 aperture ovate ; columella broad, short, and slightly twisted ; 

214 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

outer lip expanded, sub-reflected below ; sub-umbilicated. Col- 
 or, a grayisb-wliite, witli numerous blotches and zigzag mark- 
 ings of brown, more obscure on tbe last whorl ; aperture and 
 lip of a dingy white. 

Long. ^§; lat |;j poll. 

Halitat. — Molokai. 

Remarhs. — This is also a rare species, offering but few 
 varieties, the only variation from the type being the one fig- 
 ured, in which the suture, instead of being .simple, is, in the 
 last whorl, strongly corded. 

10. AcHATi>rELLA PHYSA, Newcomb. 

Proc. Boston N. H. Soc, 1855. 

Plate 13, fig. 10. 

Description. — Shell sinistral, pointed at the summit, strongly 
 inflated below, rudely striated obliquely ; Avhorls 6, first five 
 flatly convex, the last largely inflated and obsoletely carinated ; 
 suture simple and deeply impressed ; columella short, slightly 
 callous, broad, and partially covering a deep umbilicus ; aper- 
 ture large, semi-ovate ; lip sub-reflected below, thin and simple 
 above. Color of a dingy white, occasionally marked with 
 yellow flammules, internally of a light lemon yellow, some- 
 times white. 

Originally described in Zoological Proceedings, London, 
 1854, plate 2-1, fig. 6-i, in an immature state. 

Long. 1, lat. '6. 

JTahitat. — Hawaii. 

Bemarhs. — This is much the largest of the Physoid group 
 oi Achatinellse^ to which we refer A. Selena, Newcomb, from 
 Molokai, A. dubia, Newcomb, from Oahu, and A. rjrisea^ New- 
 comb, from Maui. The specimen figured is the largest-sized 
 specimen that I have seen, the measurements rarely reaching 
 to the size given. 

11. ACHATINELLA TETRAO, NewCOmb. 

Boston Proc, 1855. Eepublished in Zool. Proc, at a sub- 
 sequent date. 

Plate 13, figs. 11, 12. 
 Description. — Shell sinistral, acutely conical, pointed at the 
 summit, inflated below ; whorls 6, rounded ; suture deep ; aper- 
 ture sub-ovate ; columella short and broadly plicate. Color 
 white, covered by a thin epidermis, with black or brown un- 
 dulations, often so dense as to cover most of the shell ; a broad 
 sutural carmine band is a constant character ; aperture within 
 white ; columella and adjoining portion of the base of the shell 
 pink or orange. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 215 

Long. i§; lat. t,% poll. 

Hahitat. — Ranai. 

Memarl's. — There is a beautiful group of these finely-painted 
 acuminate Achatinellx, commencing with A. venusia, Mighels, 
 and containing the following series : — 

A. venusta, Mighels, 

A. citrina, Mighels, 

A. Remyi, Newcomb, 

A. sanguinea, Newcomb, 

A. tetrao, Newcomb, 

A. picta, Mighels. 

The four central islands of the group are represented by 
 these species, the two first from Molokai, sanguinea from 
 Oahu, 'picta from Maui, the other two from Ranai. 

It may be noted that A. Ferussaci, Pfr., has been omitted 
 from this association, as the typical shell in Mr. Cuming's col- 
 lection is a worn, rather large-sized sanguinea. 

A fine, light-colored variety, with a rosy tip, is occasionally 
 found, but is much less common than those with a dark epi- 
 dermis studded with small, white, triangular markings. 

12. AcHATiisrELLA Remyi, Newcomb. 
 New York Lye, 1855. 

Plate 13, fig. 13. 

Description. — Shell acuminately elongate, striee numerous, 
 well defined, obliquely longitudinal ; whorls 7, rounded, mi- 
 nutely margined above or plain ; suture rather deep ; aperture 
 sub-ovate ; columella slightly callous, with a terminal lamellar 
 plait. Color salmon, painted with numerous zigzag black 
 lines, continuous from the summit to the base of the shell ; lip 
 margined within with reddish-purple. 

Long, y^ ; lat. o\ poll. 

Habitat. — Ranai. 

Remarks. — This species is of great rarity, only a few speci- 
 mens having been collected. It is not so robust a shell as the 
 preeeding, with which it has affinities, as also with sanguinea 
 and incta. The measurements from adult specimens give the 
 following result, viz : — • 

A. incta. A. tetrao. A. sanguinea. A. Remyi. 

19>^8'-2 ]5v9 I6v8 14v'> 

;J|J^30 20^30 :^0^30 3D '^3 

216 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

13. AcHATiNELLA Alexandri, Newcomb. 

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Sau Francisco, Jan., 1864. 
 Plate 13, fig. 1-1. 

Description. — Sliell perforated, left-banded, elongately sub- 
 cylindrical, shining, reddisli-brown, with painting of elongate, 
 inosculating black veins ; whorls 6, convex, regularly, but 
 slowly, increasing ; apex a little obtuse ; suture moderately 
 impressed, not emarginate; aperture small, sub-ovate; lip 
 acute ; columella white, short, almost straight, truncate, ter- 
 minating by a twisted plait passing within. 

Long. '6, diam. '25 inch. 

Eemarks. — This species is more cylindrical than any of its 
 congeners, resembling most A. Remyi, Newc, which is longer, 
 not umbilicate, more pointed at the apex, with a twisted, not 
 truncate, columella. 

From venusta and citrina, Mighels, it varies both in form 
 and color. With some varieties of picta it claims analogy 
 only in the general plan of painting. Its striking character- 
 istics are its blunt apex, slightly rounded whorls, small aper- 
 ture, short and white columella, umbilicus, and general plan 
 of coloring. 

A few specimens were collected at an elevation of 7,500 
 feet, on West Maui, by the Eev. M. Alexander, to whom the 
 species is dedicated. 

14. ACHATINELLA UNDULATA, NeWCOmb. 

Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. History, 1855. 
 Plate 13. fig. 15. 

Description. — Shell sinistral or dextral, rather solid, acutely 
 conical, shining, polished, with longitudinal oblique fine strias, 
 microscopically spirally striate ; whorls 6, rounded and mar- 
 gined above; suture well impressed; aperture sub-ovate; 
 columella short and plicately twisted; lip acute, thickened 
 within. Color light olive to chestnut, alternating with slightly 
 undulating chestnut or black lines and bands, rarely marked 
 by transverse black fascire ; columella and ap*ture white. 

Long, y poll; lat. £^ poll. 

Eahitat. — Waialua, Oahu. 

Bemarks. — This species, very variable in color and size, has 
 in all cases the undulating markings by which it acquires its 
 name. The specimen illustrated varies in the latitude from 
 that given above by 5% of an inch, and is more obese in conse- 
 quence. 

OP coNcnoLoaY. 217 

15. AcHATiNELLA Mauiexsis, Newcomb, 
 Zool. Proc, London, 1855, page 207. 
 Plate 13, fig. 16. 

Descriftion. — Shell sub-perforate, ovate-oblong, slender, lon- 
 gitudinally irregularly striate, under the lens spirally and 
 densely decussately striate, not shining, white, with broad, 
 serrated, longitudinal, brownish streaks ; spire regularly coni- 
 cal, apex obtuse; suture smooth, scarcely sub-margined; 
 whorls 5 J, flattened, the last equalling g of the shell; base 
 sub-attenuated ; aperture oblong, not oblique ; columellar pli- 
 cation obsolete ; lip simple, straight, brown margined ; colum- 
 ellar margin reflexly arched, partially adherent. 

Long. '5, lat. "25 in. 

Sahitat. — West Maui. 

Bemarlcs. — This species might, with more propriety, be 
 placed under Bulirnus, as the genus Achatinella was originally 
 defined by Swainson. This has, however, been enlarged by 
 Dr. Pfeifter to include the numerous late additions of aberrant 
 forms with which Swainson was not acquainted. 

It is with regret I learn that many localities of the rare and 
 beautiful forms of this genus have been destroyed on the 
 islands. Many of the species that selected for their homes the 
 broad green Ti leaf have had their habitations destroyed by 
 the greatly extended grazing ground of large herds of cattle. 
 Mr. H. Mann, who recently returned from researches on the 
 islands, states that Achatinella' s have become very scarce owing 
 to the above-named cause. 

218 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

MONOGEAPH 

OF THE 

TERRESTRIAL MOLLUSCA 

OF THE 

TJialtocL Sta^tes- 

BY GEOEGE W. TRY OX, JR. 

PEE FACE. 

T^he substance of the following pages was written by me 
 some years ago for my own use, in identifying the species 
 of North American Land Shells. Having found it an import- 
 ant aid in this connection, saving me much time, trouble and 
 uncertainty, I have concluded to publish it, in the hope that 
 it will prove alike useful to others pursuing the same study. 
 To this end, the subject has been carefully reviewed, much of 
 it re-written, and all the species published to this date included. 

After a vain attempt to reconcile the prominent characters of 
 the shells with the characters of the soft parts, or animals, as 
 described by recent observers, and to divide the species ac- 
 cording to the families and sub-families which they have in- 
 stituted, I have concluded to introduce only such of these 
 divisions as will give the genera and species as nearly as pos- 
 sible in their natural sequence, founded upon Conchohgical 
 distinctions. 

In pursuing this course (unavoidable, on account of the 
 paucity of our knowledge of anatom'ical characters, and of the 
 values of these characters in classification), we less regret the 
 absence of a strictly scientific arrangement, because without 
 it we can more readily attain the object of these pages than by 

OP CONCnOLOGY. 219 

separating, according to supposed important characters of the 
 soft parts, species which, conohologically, greatly resemble one 
 another, and again, on the same grounds, uniting incongruous 
 forms* 

As nearly all the proposed genera of the American Helices 
 appear to be well founded upon differences of animal and 
 shell, I have adopted them, believing that they will facilitate 
 rather than embarrass the investigator. 

Finally, I may be permitted to add, these pages being writ- 
 ten, not so much for the use of those who are, but rather for 
 those who desire to hecome, Conchologists, it has seemed to me 
 most proper that the descriptions of species should be as con- 
 cise and as free from technical words as possible ; that even 
 characters of minor importance, and those, especially, which 
 require microscopic observation, should be generally omitted, 
 or only slightly alluded to; that the would-be naturalist 

* Several recent writers have separated from the Helicidm certain species, 
 which otherwise are entirely undistinguishable from that family, on account 
 of the animal possessing a mucous pore near its tail, hke the snails of the 
 genera Arion and Parmacella. They have accordingly united them either 
 to Arionidm or ParmacellidcE. 

The late M. Moquin-Tandon, a most excellent French malacologist, 
 appears to us to have correctly determined the presence of a developed 
 spiral shell as of sufficient importance to justify the retention of these spe- 
 cies within the family Helicidm. 

The possession of this mucous pore does not appear to characterize the 
 animals of any particular groups of our species, for in those most nearly 
 allied it is absent in one and present in another, and of a well characterized 
 group of species, one only has been found to possess it. Very many of 
 these animals have not yet been examined ; so that, at present, it would 
 serve no useful purpose to use this distinction in classification. 

The differences in the jaw (buccal plate) and the armature of the tongue 
 (lingual dentition) are employed by recent investigators for the combina- 
 tion of the genera of the Helices into sub-families, several of which appear 
 to form good natural divisions, as Helicellinm for the thin, glabrous species 
 with unreflected lip. Helicince, on the contrary, includes a heterogenous 
 collection of forms, from which I would suggest that the species of Patula 
 should be separated, though I do not think they can possibly be correctly 
 associated with Vallonia and Planospira, Sirohila and Ilelicodiscus. 

A close study of all that has been accomplished by American malacolo- 
 gists convinces me that — 

1. If the sub-families proposed are properly characterized, i. e., are natu- 
 ral groups, it is impossible, with our present limited knowledge, to pro- 
 perly distribute all the species among them, and — 

2. For this reason, other sub-families must remain to be characterized ; 
 but— 

3. If, when we obtain a knowledge of the characters of the soft parts of 
 the at-present unarrangeahle groups of species, it does not show the exist- 
 ence of other sub-families, then, in all probability, no sub-famiMes, as now- 
 defined, exist. 

The able investigators, Messrs. Binney, Bland and Morse, who are now 
 carefully and thoroughly studying the dentition of our species, will doubt- 
 less, in due time, arrive at results in the highest degree satisfactory to cou- 
 chological students. Meanwhile, impressed by the unsatisfactory nature 
 of our own edifice (equally with that erected hy our predecessors), we trust 
 that it will remain unquoted by future systematists. 

220 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

should first be induced to collect and nmne, afterwards to 
 arrange his collections upon the study of their habits and 
 affinities; and that naturalists would become ten times more 
 numerous were they not appalled at the outset by the im- 
 nnensity of the subject, which afterwards proves its greatest 
 charm. 

There are, besides, many persons whose leisure or tastes do 
 not permit them ever to become, strictly speaking, naturalists, 
 but who, nevertheless, if furnished Avith proper guides, would 
 gladly devote a few hours occasionally to the pursuit of some 
 branch of natural history, although they would never engage 
 in it to such extent as to make it a study; and we feel that 
 this large class of persons should be encouraged to do as 
 much as possible for the benefit of science by collecting the 
 material necessary for the researches of the educated naturalist. 

"Whenever good specimens could not be readily obtained 
 for figuring, recourse has been had to previously published 
 figures, and my acknowledgments are due to the works of 
 Messrs. Binney, Bland, Lea and others, for the opportunity 
 afforded by them for completing the illustrations. Very many 
 of the shells are figured for the first time, as this is the first 
 complete monography published since that of Dr. Binney. 

The large number of new species described since that period 
 have been classified in accordance with their affinities with 
 those previously characterized. 

At the close of the work will be found a list of American 
 works on terrestrial species, and also a systematic list of the 
 species and their principal synonyms. This has been deemed 
 far preferable in the present instance (being more in accordance 
 with the plan and purpose which I have endeavored to explain), 
 to the usual method of prefixing the synonymy to the descrip- 
 tion of each species. 

GEOKGE W. TRYON, Jr. 

625 Market Street, 
 Philadelphia, July 1st, 1866. 

OP coNcnoLOOY. 221 

INTEODUCTION, 

fpiie number of described species of terrestrial mollusca known 
 to inhabit within the limits of the United States is not far 
 from 275 species, and many of these have a geographical dis- 
 tribution almost co-extensive with our territorial limits. There 
 are, however, some peculiarly Southern and Californian groups 
 of more restricted distribution, while there are not wanting, in 
 our far Southern and South-western States, stragglers from the 
 peculiar faunas of Mexico and Cuba ; and even a few European 
 species have become domesticated with us. 

While all the species discovered and described in the United 
 States to this date are included in the following pages, a few 
 Mexican species are also added, generally as illustratious of 
 allied forms inhabiting an adjacent country, many of which 
 will doubtless be detected within our b'oundary when our 
 little-known contiguous territories are more fully explored by 
 the naturalist. A brief account of the geographical distribu- 
 tion of the species and of their habits is included under the 
 description of each genus. 

Id the description of the species, for the sake of conciseness, 
 many characters are omitted which are common to, and have 
 already been used in the description of any of the groups, 
 genera, or higher divisions in which the species is included, 
 and, therefore, no specific description can he regarded as en- 
 tirely complete in itself. It will, of course, be readily under- 
 stood that adult shells of perfect growth are alone selected for 
 these descriptions, and the same species, when immature, pre- 
 sents a very different aspect. Mesodon ahholahris, an animal 
 of which the adult is furnished with a shell having a reflected 
 and appressed lip and covered umbilicus, is, when young, fur- 
 nished with a sharp- edged lip, and the umbilicus is open. The 
 observer will soon, by a few comparisons, be enabled readily 
 to separate the mature from the young shells, as the latter 
 always present a peculiarly unfinished, fragile aspect. 

When the ascertained geogra-phical distribution of a species 
 is extensive, we have generally indicated merely the States 
 forming its boundaries. Its occurrence may be presumed 
 within all the included region. More particular localities are 
 only stated when the hitherto ascertained habitat of a species 
 is extremely local. 

Measurements are made in millimetres, 25 -= 1 inch. 

222 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Key to the Families of Terrestrial Mollusca inhabiting the 
 United States. 

Order PULMONIFERA. 

Section A.— ADELOPNEUMONA (Inoperculata). 

Includes botli terrestrial and fluviatile species, 
 Shell without operculum. 

Sub-order Geophila. 

Terrestrial shells. Head furnished with four tentaculee, 
 either retractile by inversion or contractile, the superior pair 
 with the eyes at their summits. Eespiratory orifice closed by 
 a valve. 

* Tentacles ketractile by inversion. 
 •j- Shell external. 

X Shell thin, polished, translucent, lip sharp-edged. 
 § Shell ohlong-oval or fusiform. 
 Family Oleacinid^. 

The species of Oleacinidx inhabit the vicinity of sea-shores 
 of the Southern States from South Carolina to Texas ; also the 
 Pacific coast, but not extending so far northwards as Califor- 
 nia. They are all large in size, and are stragglers from the 
 Mexican and West Indian faunas. 

§§ Shell obliquely oval, luhorls very few, rajyidly increas- 
 ing in size, the last one constituting nearly the entire 
 shell. 

Family SucciNiD.E. 

Distribution universal. 

§§§ Shell discoidal, suhorbicular, turbinate or trochiform. 

Family Helicellid^. 

Inhabit throughout the United States, but mostly in the 
 Northern States east of the Rocky Mountains. 

XX Shell thicker, striate, frequently banded with colors, 
 lip thick-edged, or generally either with an interior 
 thickening caused by a marginal deposit of callus, or 
 else reflected outwards and appressly flattened. 

§ Shell discoidal, orbicular, turbinate or trochiform. 

Family Helicid^. 

Distribution universal. 

OF CONCIIOLOGY. 223 

§§ Shell ohlong or oval. 

Family Orthalicid^. 

Tropical, a few species inhabiting the Gulf States. 

§§§ Shell cylindrical or im]^seform. 

Family PuPAD^. 

Distribution universal. 

ft Shell internal, rudimentary, contained beneath the 
 tnantle. 

§ Shell small, flattened, not spiral. Respiratory orifice 
 in the p)Osterior right r)iargin of the mantle. 

Family Limacid^. 

Distributed throughout the States east of the Rocky Moun- 
 tains, and one species in Oregon. Most of the species are 
 European in origin, and only occur near the coast, especially 
 in the vicinity of the large commercial cities. 

§§ Shell represented only hy a few agglomerated calcareous 
 granules. Respiratory orifice in the anterior of the 
 right margin of the ma7itle. 

Family Arionid^. 

A single European species is found in seaports of the North- 
 ern States. 

ftt Shell entirely cdisent. Mantle covering the entire 
 tipper surface of the body of the animal. 

Family Philomycenid^. 

There are two species known, which inhabit the Northern 
 and Middle States. 

** Tentacles (and head) contractile beneath 

THE mantle, which COMPLETELY COVERS THE BODY 
 OF THE ANIMAL. 

§ Mantle smooth, coriaceous. 
 Family VERONiCELLiDiE. 

Tropical. One species only occurs in Florida. 
 §§ Mantle tuberculate. 
 Family ONCHiDiiDiE. 

A single species is found in Lower California. 

224 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Sub-order Limnophila. 

Amphibious and fluviatile species. Head furnished with 
 two tentacuke, with eyes at their bases. 

A few of these shells are considered terrestrial, because they 
 inhabit land within reach of the tides. 

§ Shell oval-ohhng or conoidal, mouth dentate within. 
 Not umhilicate. 

Family AuriculidvE. 

The American are all sea-shore species, except one minute 
 shell {Carychium exiguum) which extends far inland, upon 
 river margins and in damp places. 

Section B.— PHANEROPNEUMONA (Operculata). 

Shell operculate. Head furnished with two tentaculse, with 
 eyes sessile at their bases. Respiratory orifice without a valve. 

Sub-order Ectopathalma. 

Eyes lateral, at the external bases of the tentacles. Oper- 
 culum spiral or concentric. 

§ Shell orlicular or turhiiiate, whorls convex, lip con- 
 tinuous, reflected^ umbilicus open or indented. 

Family Cyclophorid^. 

A few species inhabit the Gulf States. 

§§ Shell depressed, conical, ivhorls hut little convex, lip 
 not continuous, reflected, umbilicus covered by a heavy 
 deposit of callus. 

Family Helicinidje. 

Tropical. Several species in the Gulf States, and one found 
 as far north as Indiana. None in California. 

Sub-order Opisopthalma. 

Eyes placed posterior to the bases of the tentacles. Oper- 
 culum sub-spiral. 

§ Shell cylindrical, apex truncate. 

Family TRUNCATELLIDiE. 

Inhabiting sea-shores of Florida and California. 

OP CONCHOLOGT. 225 

MONOGRAPH 

OP THE 

TERRESTRIAL MOLLUSCA 

OF THE 

XJniteci Stsbtes. 

Family OLEACINIDiE, H. and A. Adams. 

A single genus of this family inhabits the United States. 

GLANDINA, Schumacher. 

Shell oblong-oval, more or less elongated, corneous, shining; 
 spire elevated ; body whorl attenuated a little at base, imper- 
 forate ; columella thin, arcuated, abruptly truncated at base ; 
 month long, rather narrow, lip sharp. 

Animal, mouth capable of a proboscidiform protrusion, 
 without a jaw. 

The species of Olandina present few prominent distinctive 
 characters, and are particularly liable to variation in size and 
 form. As already mentioned, our species are southern in 
 distribution, and occur only upon the sea-coast or in its near 
 vicinity. 

* Transversely striate, without revolving strise. 
 t Oval, cylindrical, spire moderate. 

1. Glandina truncata, Say. 

Plate 1, figures 1, 3. 

Ovate-fusiform, heavy, striate ; spire rather elevated ; apex 
 obtuse, suture well marked, crenulate ; whorls 6-7, moderately 
 convex; body three-fourths the total length, sub-cylindrical; 
 aperture ovatc-lunate, narrow, half the total length, labium 
 sharp, rounded below to meet the perpendicular, truncate 
 columella. Fawn color tinted with rose, deeper within the 
 aperture. 

Length 65, diam. 25 millimetres. 

South Carolina to Florida. 

226 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

2. Glandina parallela, W. G. Binney. 

Plate 1, figure 3. 
 Oval-cylindrical, very solid, with numerous delicate striae 
 spire elevated, obtuse, suture moderate ; whorls 6-7, convex 
 body icith straigld parallel sides. White. 

Length 56, diam, 20 mill. 

Louisiana. 

3. Glandina Texasiana, Pfeiffer. 

Plate 1, figure 4. 
 Oblong, elongated, narrow, striate, shining, pellucid ; spire 
 convexly conical, obtuse, suture pallid, minutely crenulate : 
 whorls 6, slightly convex ; body longer than spire, attenuated 
 at base ; mouth half the total length, narrow, labrum flatly 
 rounded, columella perpendicular, or generally arcuate. Yel- 
 lowish rose color. 

Length 29, diam. 10-5 mill. 

Texas. 
 Narrower, smaller, and proportionally more solid than No. 1. 

f f Inflated oval, spire short. 

4. Glandina bullata, Grould. 

Plate 1, figure 5. 
 Ovate, ventricose, finely striate, very tliin, transparent ; spire 
 short, obtuse, suture lightly impressed ; whorls 5, slightly con- 
 vex; body comprising seven-eighths of the shell ; aperture two- 
 thirds the total length, lunate, labrum rounded, columella 
 arcuate, Yery pale horn color. 

Length 37, diam. 20 mill. 

Louisiana. 

** Transversely striate, decussated by revolving lines. 
 5. Glandina Vanuxemii, Lea. 

Plate 1, figure 6. 

Ovate-fusiform, thin, fragile, translucent ; spire moderate. 

obtuse, apex mamillary, suture crenulated ; Avhorls 7-8, slightly 

convex ; body large, convex, a little inflated ; aperture half the 

length of the shell, nearly three times as long as broad, colu- 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 22T 

mella strongly arcbed. Pale fawn color, sometimes greenish, 
 generally flecked with distant pale spots. 

Length 70, diam. 25 mill. 

Texas and Mexico. 

6. Glandina decussata, Deshayes. 

Plate 1, figure 7. 
 Oblong-conic, thin, shining; spire moderate, obtuse, sutures 
 crenulated ; whorls 7-8, somewhat convex ; body two-thirds 
 the total length, narrowly convex ; aperture oblong, one-half 
 the total length, columella curved, covered with a light callus. 
 Light horn color. 

Length 50, diam. 18 mill. 

Texas, Mexico. 
 Narrower, more cylindrical than No. 5, 

Mexican species. 

Not spirally striate. 

7. Glandina turris, Pfeififer. 

Plate 1, figure 8, 
 Oblong turrited, thin, diaphanous; spire elevated, obtuse- 
 suture crenulate ; whorls 7 ; body narrow, equalling three- 
 sevenths of the total length; aperture semi-oval, columella verti- 
 cal, abruptly truncate before reaching the base of the aperture. 
 Corneous. 

Length 13, diam. 15 mill. 

Mazatlan. 

8. Glandina Albersi, Pfeiffer. 

Plate 1, figure 9. 

Ovate-oblong, thin, pellucid ; spire moderate, conical, apex 
 obtuse, suture scarcely crenulate ; whorls 5|-6, slightly con- 
 vex, the last scarcely longer than the spire, attenuated at base ; 
 aperture sub-vertical, sinuately semi-oval, labrum slightly 
 arcuate, columella perpendicular. Light corneous. 

Length 30, diam. 12 mill, 

Mazatlan. 

32» AMERICAN JOURNAL 

SUCCINID^. 

SUCCINEA, Draparnaud. 

Shell obliquely ovate, imperforate, very thin, unicolored, 
 corneous, transparent or translucent ; spire very small, body 
 whorl large, inflated ; aperture large, oval or ovate, peristome 
 simple, acute. 

Animal large, with short and thick tentacles ; foot broad. 
 Buccal plate with a posterior quadrangular projection for the 
 attachment of its muscles ; cutting edge with one or more 
 projections or folds, not striate. 

Semi aquatic, inhabiting low, damp ground liable to over- 
 flow, on the margins of bodies of water, and frequently adher- 
 ing to the leaves of aquatic plants. Generally, large numbers 
 of a species are found together — at least of those northern 
 species with the habits of which we are most familiarly ac- 
 quainted. One species, however, S. avara, is very frequently 
 found solitary or in pairs only, and appears to be somewhat 
 different in its habit, as I have frequently taken it in shady 
 places on high ground, far removed from bodies of water. 

There appears to be two distinct groups or sub-genera of 
 Succinese inhabiting North America; the first, characterized 
 by well-rounded whorls, is recognized by malacologists as 
 typical ; the second, with the shell ovate, and the whorls flat- 
 tened above and effuse below, has received the name of Bra- 
 chyspira^ Pfr. 

Examined with a view to geographical distribution, we find 
 the two groups of Succinees to have their representatives in 
 every part of the Union, and yet, so far as we may presume to 
 generalize from the very insufficient data which has been col- 
 lected and published, the species appear to be much less dif- 
 fused throughout the country than those of the Helices. The 
 following table will give an idea of their territorial range: — 

1. Inhabiting the Northern States westward to the Rocky 
 Mountains, extending into British Ameiica, southwards 
 to Virginia and Tennessee. 
 7, S. ohliqua, 10, S. vermeta, 11, S. avara, 21 S. ovalis, 32, 
 S. aurea. 

a. Confined to New England States. 
 1, S. Totteniana. 

b. Confined to northern frontier of the United States and north- 

wards. 
 12, S. Groenlandica, 14, S. Verilli, 22, S. Decampii, 23, 
 8. Hlgginsi. 

c. Ohio. 
 24, S. retusa. 

OF CONCnOLOGY. 229 

2. Southern Atlantic States— South Carolina to Florida. 

2, *S'. infiata, 4, S. campestris^ 6, S. effusa, 26, S. Wilsonii, 

29, S. luteola. 

3. South-western States — Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas. 

3, S. unicohr, 8, jS. Greerii, 9, S. Orosvenorii, 27, S. For- 

sheyi, 28, S. concordialis, 31, S. Salleayia, 33, S. Hale- 
 ana. 

4. Pacific States — California, Oregon, British Columbia, 

Nebraska, etc. 
 5, S. Stretchiana, 13, S. Gahhii, 15, S. lineata, 16, *S'. 
 Mooresiana, 17, S. Oregonensis^ 18, S. rusticana, 19, 
 S. Haydeni, 20, >& Slllimani, 25, >iS'. Nuttalliana, 30, 
 /S*. Hawlcinsii. 

We thus find that our as yet imperfectly-known fauna ex- 
 hibits thirty-three well characterized species of Succinea, and 
 exceeds greatly those inhabiting Europe, which, in the last 
 edition of Pfeifter's Monograph, number thirteen.* 

This extraordinary development of species of a single genus 
 of terrestrial Mollusks upon our Continent is the more remark- 
 able from the fact that in other terrestrial genera common to 
 the two Continents, our fauna is by no means so rich as that of 
 Europe. In Helix, Bidimus and Pupa, the species are not 
 ■nearly so numerous with us. 

Several species of Succinea inhabit Mexico, Central America 
 and the West India Islands, but their number is not so great 
 as would be expected from the considerable quantity of other 
 types of terrestrial Mollusks in those countries. In fact, the 
 paucity of these forms leads to the conclusion that the maxi- 
 mum development of these groups {Succinea and Brachyspira) 
 of the genus is within the limits of the United States, and that 
 the principal species are inhabitants of the temperate zone of 
 America and Europe. 

* It is remarkable that Pfeiffer and Albers (Heliceen, 1861J have both 
 failed to recognize the true characters of the two groups of Succinea in- 
 habiting Europe. Although their definition of Brachyspira is sufficiently 
 correct, yet they have so distributed the species as to show that they re- 
 garded these divisions as very arbitrary, not as natural ones. Thus, we 
 have almost every species of Brachyspira, European and American, placed 
 by these authors in their sub-genus or group Succinea, whereas almost 
 every European species is a true Brachyspira. We may instance 8. Pfeif- 
 feri, 8. longiscata, 8. Italica, etc. '8. JJumilis, 8. Baudoni, etc., may be 
 classed as typical Succinece. 

230 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

t Spire short, body ivliorl very large, inflated, well rounded. 
 1. Succinea Totteniana, Lea. 

Plate 2, figure 1. 

Obliquely ovate, tliin, transparent, obsoletely striate, shin- 
 ing; spire very short, of scarcely three whorls; body whorl 
 nine-tenths of the total length and inflated oval ; aperture ova], 
 obtusely angulate above, three-fourths the total length, peris- 
 tome well rounded. 

Length 16, diam. 9 mill. 

New Endand and Eastern New York. 

2. Succinea inflata, Lea. 

Plate 2, figure 2. 

Inflated, oval, thin, spire very short, apex sub-acute, suture 
 impressed ; whorls 3, those of the spire not very convex ; body 
 short-oval, seven-eighths the total length ; aperture widely 
 ovate. Chalky white, spire inclining to brown, aperture with- 
 in tinged with light yellow. 

Length 12, diam. 8 mill. 

South Carolina and Georgia. 

Is of heavier texture and different color from S. Totteniana. 
 Mr. W. G. Binney considers this species doubtfully distinct 
 from S. Campestris. I think it is well distinguished. 

3. Succinea unicolor, Tryon. (Nov. spec.) 

Plate 2, figure 3. 
 Oval, inflated, very thin, translucent, finely striate; spire 
 very short, apex acute, suture moderately impressed ; whorls 
 3, the last very large ; aperture short-ovate, outer lip somewhat 
 expanded. Light corneous. 

Length 8, diam. 6 mill. 

New Orleans, La. 

This shell, mentioned by Pfeiffer as a variety, appears to 
 me to be specifically distinct. Specimens exist in the magni- 
 ficent collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 
 delphia, and for others I am indebted to Mr. Thomas Bland, 
 of New York. 

OP OONCHOLOOY. 231 

4. Succinea campestris, Say. 

Plate 2, figure 4. 
 Rounded-ovate, distantly striate, shining; spire short, apex 
 acute ; whorls o, convex, suture impressed ; body large, ventri- 
 cose ; aperture oval, not quite two-thirds the total length, co- 
 lumella indented in the middle. Yellowish white or yellowish 
 horn color, the strite opaque white. 

Length 15, diam, 10 mill. 

South Carolina to Florida. 

Differs from injiata in having a somewhat longer, more con- 
 vex spire, and in the distant, white strias. In cam.jyestris the 
 aperture does not occupy so large a portion of the entire width 
 as in inJlata. 

5. Succinea Stretchiana, Bland. 

Plate 2, figure 5. 
 Globose-conic, thin, pellacid, shining, striatulate ; spire short, 
 obtuse, suture well impressed ; whorls 3, convex, the last in- 
 flated; aperture roundly oval, columella arcuate, slightly thick- 
 ened. Greenish horn color. 

Length 6-25, diam. 5 mill. 

Little Valley, "Washoe Co., Nevada, on the eastern slope of 
 the Sierra Nevada, 6500 feet above the sea. 

6. Succinea efFusa, Shuttleworth. 

Plate 2, figure 6. 

Depressed- oval, very thru, transparent, shining, slightly 
 striated ; spire remarkably short, apex acute, body equalling 
 fourteen-fifteeuths of the length of the shell ; aperture very 
 large, oblique, wide, broadly rounded below, columella scarcely 
 rounded. Greyish horn color. 

Length 11, diam. 7 mill. 

Florida. 

Differs from all the preceding in the minute spire and pro- 
 portionally very long body,the aperture being four-fifths the 
 total length and two-thirds of the width of the shell. 

** Sinre moderate, apex acute, body inflated^ aperture 
 large, hroadly oval, peristome well rounded, the superior 
 part not flattened. 

232 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

7. Succinea obliqua, Say. 

Plate 2, figure 7. 
 Ovate, very thin and fragile, pellucid, shining, irregularly 
 wrinkled or striate ; spire short, minute, suture well impressed; 
 whorls 3, a little oblique, the last very large, expanded, ovate; 
 aperture large, oval, both lips equally rounded, a little angular 
 behind, equalling nearly three-fourths the total length. Yel- 
 lowish or yellowish green. 

Length 20, diam. 13 mill. 

British America to Virginia, westward to Arkansas, Iowa. 

8. Succinea Greerii, Tryon. (Nov. spec.) 

Plate 2, figure 8. 
 Ovate, rather thick, rugose, not transparent; spire short 
 conical, suture moderately impressed ; whorls 3, but slightly 
 oblique, well rounded, the last one a little flattened above the 
 periphery ; aperture ovate, three-fifths the total length, not 
 acute above, well rounded below ; columella tv/isted, with a 
 slight callous deposit. Light yellowish or greenish horn color. 

Length 15, diam. 9 mill. 

Vicksburg, Miss. — Col. James Greer. 

This species was recently sent to the Academy of Natural 
 Sciences in considerable numbers by Col. James Greer. Most 
 of the specimens were smaller than the one figured. It appears 
 to be intermediate between ^S'. ohliqua, Say, and S. Orosvenorii, 
 Lea, differing from the former in color, texture, the contorted 
 and less curved columella, smaller size, and less swollen con- 
 tour, as well as more regular increase of the whorls ; and from 
 the latter by its color, less convexity, more ovate aperture, &c. 

9. Succinea Grosvenorii, Lea. 

Plate 2, figure 9. 

Ovate, thin, translucent, shining, distantly striate ; spire 
 elevated, apex acute, suture well impressed; Avhorls 3, a little 
 oblique, the body large but not much inflated ; aperture broad- 
 ly rounded, the columella impressed , above, equalling two- 
 thirds the total length. Light lemon color. 

Length 12, diam. 8 mill. 

Alexandria, La. 

Smaller than No. 8, with more elevated spire, more convex 
 whorls, and heavier texture. 

OP CONCHOLOGT. 233 

10. Succinea vermeta, Say. 

Plate 2, figure 10. 
 Ovate-lengthened, very tliin, fragile, translucent, wrinkled; 
 spire elevated, acute, suture jnofoundly impressed; volutions 3, 
 very much rounded, oblique ; aperture ovate, rounded above. 
 Yellowish. 

Length 10, diam. 7 mill. 

Northern States. 

The great convexity of the whorls and very deep suture are 
 the distinguishing characters of this species. A large variety 
 of S. avara not possessing these characters has erroneously 
 passed among Conchologists as S. vermeta. 

11. Succinea avara, Say. 

Plate 3, figures 11 and 13. 
 Ovate, thin, fragile, minutely hairy or shining, spire elevated, 
 acute, suture well impressed ; aperture broadly oval, a little 
 m,ore than half the total length. Yellowish or gveji&h, frequent- 
 ly encrusted tcith dirt. 

Length 6, diam. 3| mill. 

Northern, Middle and Western States to Nebraska. 

The smallest of the northern species, readily distinguished 
 from No. 10 by its less scalariform volutions. In Greenland 
 it is replaced by the following species ; in the Pacific States by 
 S. Oregonensis ; in the far South by /S'. Haleana — all species of 
 about equal size. A western variety sometimes attains nearly 
 double the dimensions quoted above. 

This species frequently inhabits at a considerable distance 
 from water or low grounds. 

Mr. Isaac Lea has described a species from Ohio under the 
 name of S. Wardiana, which Mr, I3inney believes to be iden- 
 tical with S. avara, in which opinion I coincide. As Mr. Lea 
 has recently reasserted the specific weight of his species,* I 
 have had a drawing made from the type (fig. 12) of S. Ward- 
 iana, to aftbrd opportunity of making comparisons, as it had ' 
 not been previously figured. 

* Proceedings Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1865. 

234 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

12. Succinea Grcenlandica, Beck. 

Plate 2, figure 13. 

Elongated, strongly wi'inkled ; spire elevated, suture well 
 impressed ; body very large proportionally, not inflated ; aper- 
 ture oval, three-fifths the total length. Covered with an 
 opaque, somewhat shining, horn-colored epidermis, with narrow 
 white lines caused by its abrasion from the elevated striae. 

Length 8, diam. 5| mill. 

Greenland, and Mingan Island, Gulf of St. Lawrence. 

13. Succinea Gabbii, Try on. (Nov. sp.) 

Plate 2, figure 14. 

Elongate ovate, thin, sub-pellucid, coarsely undulately stri- 
 ate ; spire long, acute, suture deeply impressed ; whorls nearly 
 4, but slightly oblique, very convex, the last three-fourths of 
 the total length ; aperture small, roundly oval, columella well 
 incurved. Light yellowish. 

Length 9, diam. 5 mill. 

Crooked Creek of Owyhee, 60 miles "W. of boundary S. E. 
 Oregon. Crane Lake Valley, N. E. CaL— W. M. Gabb. 

Larger and more convex than Grcenlandica^ and differently 
 colored. The spire is proportionally longer in this than in 
 the other species of the group. 

14. Succinea Verrilli, Bland. 

Plate 2, figure 15. 
 Ovate-conic, thin, sub-pellucid, striate; spire elevated, obtuse, 
 apex globose, suture well impressed ; whorls 3, very convex, 
 not very oblique; aperture roundly oval, small, columella ar- 
 cuate with a slight callus. Orange yellow, apex reddish. 

Length 7, diam. 3*5 mill. 

Salt Lake, Anticosti Island, Gulf of St. Lawrence. 

Smaller than Grcenlandica, of different color, and has more 
 distinct and regular incremental striae. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 235 

15. Succinea lineata, W. G. Binney. 

Plate 2, figure 16. 

Oblong ovate, irregularly wrinkled, between wbicli are 
 coarse, remote, revolving lines ; spire acute ; whorls 3, very 
 convex; aperture one-half the length of the shell, oval; colum- 
 ella folded. 

Length 12, diam. 6 mill. 

Nebraska, N". E. California, British America. 

Differs from vermeta by its more oval form. The aperture 
 is correctly egg-shaped. It is the heaviest of American spe- 
 cies. The columella is not always folded, nor the revolving- 
 lines apparent. 

10. Succinea Mooresiana, Lea. 

Plate 2, figure 17. 

Ovate, thin, striate ; spire elevated, acute ; whorls 3, convex, 
 suture impressed ; body large, not inflated ; aperture widely 
 ovate, obtusely angled above ; columella with a distinct fold. 
 Light yellowish-white. 

Length 9, diam. 6 mill. 

Platte River. 

This may be only a variety of No. 15. The principal differ- 
 ence is, that it is more depressed, the spire not so much 
 exserted and not so convex, and the aperture nearly two-thirds 
 the total lenoth. 

17. Succinea Oregonensis, Lea. 

Plate 2, figure 18. 
 Elongated oval, thin, diaphanous, shining, striate ; spire 
 acute, suture well impressed ; whorls 3, well rounded ; body 
 seven-eighths and aperture two-thirds the total length ; aper- 
 ture ovate, one-third longer than broad, columella arcuate. 
 Color deep orange or golden. 

Length 9, diam. 6 mill. 

Oregon, California. 

Differs from No. 16 principally in its diaphanous texture 
 and dark ^olor. 

i!iJt) AMERICAN JOURNAL 

18. Succinea rusticana, Gould. 

Plate 3, figure 19. 

Elongate ovate, thin, fragile, diaphanous, irregularly striate ; 
 spire elevated, acute, suture moderately impressed ; whorls 3, 
 not very convex ; body long, oval, not inflated ; aperture nar- 
 rowly oval, three-fifths the entire length. Pale greenish or 
 yellowish. 

Length 14, diam. 7 mill. 

Oregon, California. 

Immediately distinguished from the other species of this 
 section by its narrow, lengthened form. Resembling the fol- 
 lowing several species, but differing from them all in the 
 regular curve of the outer lip. 

*** Shell ovate, spire rather elevated^ apex acute, whorls 
 flattened, body whorl large, hut not inflated, aperture an- 
 gulate above, labrum superiorly more or less flattened. 

(BRACHYSPIRA, Pfeififer.) 

19. Succinea Haydeni, W. G. Binney. 

Plate 2, figure 20. 
 Elongate-oval, thin, shining ; spire short, acute ; whorls 3, 
 convex, the last marked with wrinkles of growth, and irregu- 
 lar, heavy, spiral furrows; aperture oblique, oval, five-sevenths 
 the total length, the lower margin considerably expanded. 
 Amber colored. 

Length 21, diam. 9 mill. 

Nebraska and northwards. 

The peristome is more flexuose than in S. ovalis, Gld., and 
 it is more attenuately pointed above ; it also differs in having 
 the revolving lines, and is a larger species. 

Var. minor. Length 15 mill. 

20. Succinea Sillimani, Bland, 

Plate 2, figure 21. 
 Oblong-ovate, thin, coarsely striate, shining; spire short, 
 acute, suture impressed; whorls 3, convex, much flattened 
 superiorly; aperture oblique, elongate oval, angular above, 
 effuse at base, columella slightly arcuate, with a thread-like 
 thickening above. White? 

OF CONCnOLOGY. 23'7 

Length 20, diam. 8'5 mill. 

Humboldt Lake, Nevada. 

More attenuated than S. Haydcni, the last whorl less tumid, 
 Hnd the aperture more narrow. 

21. Succinea ovalis, Gould. 

Plate 3, figure 23. 

Ovate-conic, very thin, pellucid, shining, very minutely 
 striate, spire acute, suture slightly impressed ; whorls 3, the 
 last compressed and elongate ; aperture produced, elongated, 
 broadly rounded below, more than three-fourths the total 
 length. Light yellowish horn color. 

Length 12, diam. 6 mill. 

New England to Wisconsin and southwards to Maryland 
 and Kentucky. 

22. Succinea DeCampii, Tryt^n. (Nov. sp.) 

Plate 2, figure 23. ' 

Ovate-conic, rather thick for the genus, translucent, finely 
 striate, surface very much polished; spire short, acute, suture 
 moderate; whorls 3, very oblique, narrow, flattened; aperture 
 narrow ovate, columella slightly incurved. Yellowish ash 
 color, spire golden, edge of aperture black. 

Length 10, diam. 5 mill. 

Marshall, Michigan. W. H. DeCamp. 

Narrower, thicker and more polished than *S'. ovalis. It also 
 differs in color and size. The black-edged peritreme is re- 
 markable, and is present in all the adult specimens I have 
 examined. 

23. Succinea Higginsi, Bland. (Nov. spec.) 

Plate 2, figure 24. 

Deprcssed-oval, thin, pellucid, somewhat shining, pale horn 
 colored ; spire short, obtuse, suture deep ; whorls 3, convex, 
 the last rather depressed ; columella scarcely arched, above 
 conspicuously plicate; aperture angularly oval, frequently 

238 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

armed with a small, oblique, white tooth on the parietal wall ; 
 peristome simple, regularly arcuate. 

Length 15, diam. 7 mill. 

Put-in Bay Island, Lake Erie. 

Allied to iS. Salleana, Pfr., S. Haydeni, W. G. Binney, and 
 especially to S. ovalis, Gould. Compared with the latter, the 
 last whorl is less convex, the aperture is more angular above, 
 the columella less arcuate and more distinctly plicate. Three 
 specimens had the parietal tooth mentioned in the description. 
 It is the only North American species in which this tooth has 
 been observed. 

24. Succinea retusa, Lea. 

Plate 3, figure 35. 

Ovate-oblong, thin and pellucid ; spire moderate, acute ; 
 aperture two -thirds the total length, elongate ovate, sharply 
 angled above, dilated and retracted IdcIow. Light yellowish. 

Length 17, diam. 8 mill. 

Ohio. 

Very close to ovalis; rather narrower, and differs in the 
 aperture. 

25. Succinea Nuttalliana, Lea. 

Plate 3, figure SG. 

Ovate conic, very thin, pellucid, shining, striate ; spire acute, 
 attenuate; whorls revolving very obliquely; aperture two- 
 thirds the total length, ovate, broadly rounded below, angled 
 above ; columella without fold. Light horn color or greyish. 

Length 15, diam. 8 mill. 

Oregon, California. 

Aperture slightly narrower posteriorly than ovalis. The 
 difference between the two is very slight, but they inhabit 
 different zoological regions. NtiUalliana is rather larger than 
 ovalis. 

26. Succinea Wilsonii, Lea, 

Plate 3, figure 37. 
 Elongate-oblique, striate, thin, diaphanous ; spire prominent, 
 acute, suture well impressed; whorls 4, rather convex, not 

OP coNCHOLoaY. 239 

very oblique ; aperture rather large, ovate, columella sliglitly 
 incurved and contorted. Orange color. 

Length 17, diam. 8 mill. 

Darien, Georgia. 

27. Succinea Forsheyi, Lea. 

Plate 2, figure 28. 

Ovate-conic, striate, thin, diaphanous; spire very short, 
 acute ; whorls 3, rapidly increasing, not very oblique ; body 
 whorl nearly the entire length of the shell, narrowly oval ; 
 mouth oval, a little angled above, columella folded nearly at 
 the superior part of the aperture. Very light lemon color. 

Length 11, diam. 6 mill. 

Eutersville, Texas. 

28. Succinea Concordialis, Gould. 

Plate 2, figure 29, 

Ovate-conic, thin, feebly decussately striate; sj^ire acute, pro- 
 minent ; whorls rather more than 3, very oblique, rapidly in- 
 creasing, the upper half of the body whorl flatly compressed ; 
 aperture two-thirds the total length, acuminated above, well 
 rounded below ; columella with greater curve than the outer 
 lip, slightly angled at its superior termination near the top of 
 the aperture ; a thin callus covers the left margin, which is 
 slightly detached anteriorly, forming a rudimentary umbilicus. 
 Pale honey yellow. 

Length 12, diam. 8 mill. 

Texas, Mexico. 

29. Succinea luteola, Gould. 

Plate 2, figure 30. 

Ovate-conic, irregularly wrinkled, somewhat thickened; spire 
 moderate, apex acute ; whorls 4, those of the spire well round- 
 ed ; upper half of body obliquely flattened ; aperture ovate, 
 over half the total length, columella not folded. Pale yellow- 
 ish or drab to white, apex and interior deeper yellow. 

240 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Length 12, diam. 6 mill. 

Florida. 
 Differs from other shells of same size and proportion in its 
 heavier texture. 

30. Succinea Hawkinsii, Baird. 

Plate 2, figure 31. 

Very narrow, sub- cylindrical, thin, rugosely striate; spire 
 very short, apex mamillary; whorls 2|, suture not impressed; 
 body very long and narrow, the sides flattened, sub-parallel ; 
 aperture narrow ovate, two-thirds the total length, viewed 
 from the base exhibiting the interior of the whorl to the 
 apex, columella slightly folded above, with a callous deposit. 
 Covered with a rather opaque dark yellow or orange epider 
 mis. 

Length 12, diam. 5 mill. 

Washington Territory, British Columbia. 

No other American species has the peculiar narrow form, 
 fragile substance and opaque epidermis of the above. 

81. Succinea Salleana, Pfeiflfer. 

Plate 2, figure 32. 

Depressed ovate, somewhat wedge-shaped, very thin, striate, 
 with impressed irregular revolving stria3 ; spire very short, not 
 elevated above the general outline of the shell, apex papillary ; 
 whorls 2 J, very much obliquely flattened above, broadly 
 rounded below ; aperture seven-eighths the entire length of 
 the shell, pear-shaped, sharply angled above, columella with- 
 out fold, not so well rounded as the labrum. Light corneous. 

Length 16, diam. 8 mill. 

New Orleans. 

The narrow wedge-shaped form of this species, together with 
 the spire almost minute and the very long aperture, will amply 
 serve to distinguish it from the others. 

OF CONCnOLOGY. 211 

32. Succinea aurea, Lea. 

Plate 2, figure 33. 
 Very small, elongated oval, very thin, transparent; spire 
 short; whorls 3, a little tabulated posteriorly, suture deeply 
 impressed ; aperture narrow-ovate, acutely angled above ; co- 
 lumella slightly folded. Amber color. 

Length 8, diam. 4 mill. 

Ohio, Niagara Falls. 

Same size as S. avara, Say, but narroiuer, more polished and 
 pellucid^ and darker color. 

33. Succinea Haleana, Lea. 

Plate 2, figure 34. 
 Oval, minutely striate; whorls 2|, apex mamillary, suture 
 deeply impressed ; body whorl a little flattened around the 
 superior part ; aperture widely oval, angled above, columella 
 medially folded, with a slight deposit of callus. Light honey 
 yellow. 

Length 5, diam. 3 mill. 

Alexandria, La. 

Very close to avara; the whorls are not so convex, nor the 
 spire so prominent, and the body is proportionally longer. 
 Avara does not extend nearly so far southward. 

Mexican Species, 
 84. Succinea cingulata, Forbes. 

Plate 2, figure 35. 
 Oblong-ovate, slightly oblique, striate, shining; spire well 
 developed, suture impressed ; whorls 4; aperture large, oval 
 columella at the base receding to the left. Brownish-yellow' 
 with obsolete spiral white lines. 

Length 12, diam. 6 mill. 

Mazatlan ? 

243 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

HELICELLIDiE. 

Shell discoidal, orbicular or trochiform, corneous, tliin, pol- 
 ished, sometimes transversely striate, translucent or transpa- 
 rent, lip sharp (not reflected outwards, nor internally thick- 
 ened); aperture without proper marginal teeth, but sometimes 
 with internal laminoc not reaching to the edge. 

Animal long and narrow. Buccal plate thin, cresccntic, 
 with an elevation in the middle of the cutting edge, side 
 slightly striate in the centre, or all over. 

Lingual dentition. — Uncini long and broad, tridentate, late- 
 rals long, narrow, curved, bidentate. 

Suh-families. 

ViTRiNiN^. Shell depressed, very fragile, consisting of 
 about three whorls, the last extremely enlarged; mouth very 
 oblique and lar^e, extending to the centre of the base of the 
 shell. 

Animal too large for complete retraction within the shell. 

Some of the species of Vitrina, as well as Helix, liave a 
 caudal mucous gland, and would, therefore, in accordance 
 with the views of Gray and others, be placed in another fam- 
 ily. We are at present compelled to consider the gland as of 
 no importance whatever in classification, or else to construct an 
 exceedingly artificial and unnatural system. 

Helicellin^. Shell thin, glabrous, translucent or transpa- 
 rent, polished, glohosehj depressed; mouth not dentate. Um- 
 bilicus generally narrowly perforate. Umbilical region im- 
 pressed. 

Lingual dentition. — As in Yitrininx. 

Differs from Yitrininx in the moderate aperture and im- 
 pressed umbilical region, from Gastrodontinve in being more 
 depressed, and not impressed striate, and from Patulimc in the 
 absence of opaque color, or ribs. 

Gastrodontin^.'^ Shell thin, translucent, striate or ribbed, 
 generally depressed conical, frequently lamellately toothed. 

Lii^gual dentition. — Generally as in the above, sometimes 
 the laterals are square, bidentate. 

Distinguished from all the others by conical shape, from 
 Patulinsey also, by its narrow umbilicus, and diaphanous tex- 
 ture. 

* This and the following Sub-Family are not proposed with any intention 
 but to facilitate the determination ot species. The Subfamily VaUoiiina 
 of Mr. Morse, in its presnt limils^ we cannot adopt. 

OP coNcnoLOOY. 243 

Patulinj^. Shell moderately thick, translucent to opaque, 
 epidermis opaquely colored, sometimes banded or striped in 
 the largo species, striate or ribbed, discoidal, planospiral, or 
 spire a little globoscly elevated. Umbilicus wide. Mouth 
 not toothed, (lamellately toothed in one species only. 

Linrjual dentition. — Uncini bidentate, laterals either long or 
 square, bidentatc or tridentate. 

VITRININ^. 

Genera. 

1. ViTRiXA, Drap. Shell very thin, polished, transparent, 

small, consisting of two or three depressed whorls, ra- 
 pidly increasing. Aperture very large, oblique, lunate. 
 Columellur margin a little inflated. Axis imperforate. 
 Nearly covering the contracted animal. 

2. BiXNEYA, Cooper. Shell ear-shaped, nearly flat, whorls 

two, laet whorl enormously expanded. One-third as 
 long as the animal, which it does not half cover when 
 contracted. 
 Much more depressed, with a larger proportionate aperture 
 than Vitrina. 

VITRINA, Drap. 
 1. Vitrina limpida, Gould. 

Plate 3, figure 1. 
 Globosely depressed, whorls 2|, scarcely convex, suture 
 very slightly canaliculate; plane of aperture very oblique. Co- 
 lorless. 

Diam. G mill. 

Maine to Michigan, and Northward. 

2. Vitrina Angelicse, Beck. 

Plate 3, figure 3. 
 Globoscly depressed, whorls 3|, suture crenulated, spire, 
 small, somewhat prominent; aperture lunately oval, oblique. 
 Color greanish yellow. 
 Diam. 6, height, 3-5 mill. 

Greenland. 

Moi-a globose, with one more whorl and more prominent 
 spire than No, 1, 

244 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

3. Vitrina Pfeiflferii, Newcomb, 

Plate 3, figure 3. 
 Globosely depressed, Avhorls 3; suture very finely margined; 
 aperture large, oblique, roundly ovate; lip thin, colunaella 
 arched. 

Diam, 5, height 2 mill. 

Carson Yalley, Cal. 

V. limpida is smaller, with only 2| whorls, and thinner. F. 
 Angelicae is more globose, with more prominent spire. 

BINNEYA, Cooper. 
 1. Binneya notabilis, Cooper. 

Plate 3, fig. 4. 
 Depressed, smooth and shining, epidermis extending be- 
 yond margin of aperture, translucent when young, but opaque- 
 ly thickened when old. Nuclear whorl with about thirty 
 delicate transverse ribs. Pale brown. 

Diam. 12, height 3 mill. 

Santa Barbara I., Cal. 

HELICELLINiE. 

Genera. 

1. Macrocyclis, Beck. Shell moderate, widely umbilicate, 

planorboid, striate; whorls 4-5, the last wide, descend- 
 ing and flattened above at the aperture. 

2. Hyalina, Ferussac. Shell moderate or small, globosely 

depressed, moderately umbilicated or perforated, or 
 umbilicus closed, but impressed; whorls 4-6, vitreous, 
 shining, regularly increasing, not angled at the pe- 
 riphery, nor flatly depressed at the aperture. 

MACROCYCLIS, Beck. 
 1. Macrocyclis Newberryana, W. G. Binney. 

Plate 3, figure 5. 
 Large, whorls 6, first ones flattened, but ultimate one con- 
 Tex, beneath convex; reddish-brown, striate, decussated by 

OP coNcnoLOOY. 245 

fine spiral lines; spire depressed, suture deeply impressed; 
 umbilicus wide and deep, lip margins connected by a callus 
 on the body. 

Diam. 37, height 13 mill. 

San Diego, Cal. 

Differs from all others of the group in its large size, and 
 color. The decussated surface, large umbilicus and rounded 
 lip distinguish it from M. Vancouver ensis, Lea. 

2. Macrocyclis Vancouverensis, Lea. 

Plate 3, figure 6. 
 Large, whorls 5, the superior part of the last one flattened 
 upon approaching the aperture, rounded beneath; bright yel- 
 lowish-green, shining, roughly striate, with very slight revolv- 
 ing lines, suture moderate, umbilicus of moderate width and 
 deep. 

Diam. 30 mill. 

Oregon and Washington Territory. 

3. Macrocyclis sportella, Gould. 

Plate 3, figure 7. 

Medium size, whorls 5, the superior part of the last one flat- 
 tened upon approaching the aperture, rounded below; very 
 light apple-green, dull, very closely and sharply striate, reticu- 
 lated by slight, revolving lines ; suture moderate, umbilicus 
 moderate and deep. 

Diam. 18 mill. 

Oregon, California. 

"With same number of whorls, is much smaller than No. 2, 
 and more sharply striate. Messrs. Binney and Bland consider 
 the two identical, but the differences are permanent in many 
 specimens before me. 

^ 4. Macrocyclis concava, Say. 

Plate 3, figure 8. 
 Medium, whorls 5, superior part of last one flattened towards 
 the mouth, well rounded beneath ; light-horn color or greenish, 
 but almost white; slightly striate, suture well impressed, um- 
 bilicus rather wide and deep. 

246 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Diam. generally 12 to 15 miil. 

Maine to Iowa, southwards to Georgia and Mississippi. 

Lighter in color, and much smoother than sjjortella, 

5. Macrocyclis Voyana, Newcomb. 

Plate 3, figure 9. 
 Small, depressed ; whorls 5, convex, the last declining to- 
 wards the aperture and somewhat flattened or concave above, 
 striate; aperture sinuate above, the lip slightly expanded, its 
 extremities joined by a callus on the body-whorl ; below 
 broadly umbilicate. Pale horn-color. 

Diam. 12'5 mill. 

Canyon Creek, Trinity Co., California. 

Smaller, darker colored and of more rugged aspect than the 
 other Californian species ; it may also be distinguished by the 
 much greater sinuosity of the upper part of the lip. 

6. Macrocyclis EUiotti, Eedfield. 

Plate 3, figure 10. 
 Whorls 5, depressed, conic or slanting above, suture mode- 
 rate, striate, polished, well rounded beneath; umbilicus nar- 
 row, deep, aperture very oblique, wide ; light greenish-yellow. 

Diam. S, height 4 mill. 

North Carolina to Georgia. 

HYALINA, Ferussac. 

1. Axis deeply indented at base but not per/orate. 

1. Hyalina indentata, Say. 

Plate 3, figure 11. 

Whorls 4, flattened, thin, pellucid, polished, corneous, rapid- 
 ly enlarging ; aperture rather large, transverse, the peristome 
 reaching below to the centre of the base of the shell, which is 
 well impresed, but imperforate. 

Diameter 5 mill. 

From Canada to Florida, and westward to Michigan and 
 Texas. 

OP coNcnoLOGY. 247 

2. Perforate or umbilicate. 
 * Very globose. 

2. Hyalina friabilis, Wm. G. Binnej. 

Plate 3, fig. 13. 
 Whorls 5, rapidly increasing; shell very globose, thin, pol- 
 ished, faintly striate, suture scarcely impressed ; aperture sub- 
 circular, sharp lipped, very slightly thickened at base, and a 
 little reflected over the narrow, deep umbilicus; shell very 
 convex below. Color light horn to reddish. 

Diameter 20 to 25, alt. 12 to 15 mill. 

South Indiana and Illinois, Arkansas, Alabama, Texas. 

** Glohosely depressed. 

(Subgenus Omphalina, Eafinesque, "W. G. Binaey.) 

f Closely striate above, smooth beneath. 

Diam. = 20 77ull 

3. Hyalina laevigata, PfeifFer. 

Plate 3, fig. 13. 
 Whorls 5, yellowish or fulvous, very closely and regularly 
 striate above, smooth and shining beneath ; last whorl ex- 
 panding towards the aperture, which is rounded lunular; lip 
 simple, slightly reflected around the moderate umbilicus, and 
 much thickened within at base. 

Diam. 20 mill. 

Ohio, Indiana, and southwards to Florida, Mississippi and 
 Arkansas. 

ft Smooth, or coarsely, irregularly striate. 

Diam. = 25 — 35 mill. 

4. Hyalina lucubrata, Say. 

Plate 3, figure 14. 
 Depressed, sub-globose; whorls more than 4, much wrin- 
 kled, sub-translucent, reddish-brown, polished, beneath paler; 
 umbilicus rather large ; aperture nearly orbicular. 

Diam. 26, height 12 mill. 

Mexico. 

Differs in color and in being more depressed and more coarse- 
 ly striate, from laevigata, Pfr. 

248 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

5. Hyalina caduca, Pfeiffer. 

Plate 3, figure 15. 
 Depressed-globose; whorls 5, rapidly increasing, striate, 
 polished, light yellowish with a tinge of green ; aperture sub- 
 rotund, umbilicus moderate, 

Diam. 25, height 13 mill. 

Texas, Mexico, 

Lighter colored than H. lucubrata, but doubtfully distinct 
 from it. 

6, Hyalina fuliginosa, Griffith. 

Plate 3, figure 16. 

Depressed globose; whorls 4|, rapidly inoreasing, with 
 irregular oblique wrinkles, smooth, shining, suture slightly 
 impressed; aperture transversely subrotund, terminations of 
 margin approaching ; umbilicus moderate. Color dark horn 
 or chestnut. 

Diam, 25 mill. 

Western part of the Atlantic States, Western and Southern 
 States. 

Approaches H. Isevigata, but is smoother, more polished, 
 more depressed, umbilicus larger, aperture more rounded. 
 Differs in color from H. caduca and H. lucuhrala. 

7. Hyalina kopnodes, Wm. G. Binney. 

Plate 4, figure 21. 
 Depressed globose, wrinkled, below smooth, suture mode- 
 rate; whorls 5, rapidly increasing, sometimes with revolving 
 lines ; aperture large, ends of margin approaching ; umbilicus 
 small and deep. 

Diam. 35, height 13 mill, 

Alabama. 

Larger than its allies, lighter in color, more depressed, and of 
 heavy texture. 

OP coNcnoLooT. (:24"9 

*** Shell much depressed. 

ttt Diam. = 12—16 mill. 

8. Hyalina sculptilis, Bland. 

Plate 3, figure 18. 
 Depressed orbicular, subpellucid, pale horn color above, 
 lighter beneath, regularly striate above and below ; whorls 7, 
 planulate, the last rapidly increasing; umbilicus scarcely per- 
 forated and almost covered by a reflection of the lip. 

Diam. 12|, height 5 mill. 

Western North Carolina. 

In its depressed form, small size, nearly closed umbilicus 
 and number of whorls, this species is very distinct from any 
 other of the group. The impressed stria) are close and regular. 

9. Hyalina cellaria, Miiller. 

Plate 3, figure 19. 

Much depressed, whorls 5, fragile, polished, very light- 
 greenish above, more thickened and becoming lighter colored 
 below ; aperture transverse ; umbilicus small and deep. 

Diam. 10—12 mill. 

Eastern and Middle States near the coast. (Introduced from 
 Europe.) 

10. Hyalina inornata, Say. 

Plate 4, figure 23. 
 Depressed, perforate, smooth, shining, whorls 5, light yel- 
 lowish horn color, suture moderately impressed ; aperture 
 transversely lunar, with a white testaceous internal deposit; 
 lip reaching to the centre beneath ; base flattened. 

Diam. 16 mill. 

Massachusetts to Virginia, and westwards to Iowa, Michigan 
 and Kentucky. 

Larger than K. cellaria, but with a much smaller umbilicus, 
 being a mere perforation. 

250 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

11. Hyalina subplana, Binney. 

riate 4, fin:ure 23. 
 Whorls 5|, planiilate above and below, brownish, shining, 
 striated near the apex, suture not much impressed ; aperture 
 transverse, without calcareous deposit within ; umbilical re- 
 gion but slightly impressed, umbilicus very narrow. 

. Biam. 18 mill. 

East Tennessee to Western Pennsylvania. 

Differs from R. cellaria in having a narrower umbilicus, 
 and from both that and H. inornati in the absence of a cal- 
 careous dei)osit on the interior of the aperture at the base ; it 
 is darker colored, larger, and has more whorls than either of 
 them, and is more regularly flattened. 

tttt Shell small, diameter not exceeding 6 mill., umbilicus gene- 
 rail)/ narrow and deep. 

12. Hyalina Breweri, Newcomb. 

Plate 4, figure 27. 
 Discoidal, pale corneous, shining, transparent, suture slightly 
 channeled, broadly unibilicate ; whorls 5 ; aperture lunate, 
 lip thin, simple. 

Diam. 5 mill., altitude 2.5 mill. 

Lake Taho, California. 

Less elevated, more polished, lighter colored, and more 
 openly umbilicate than H. arhorea. 

13. Hyalina nitida, Muller. 

Plate 4, figure 24. 
 Whorls 4|, depressed, conically sloping above, with well 
 marked suture, convex below ; umbilicus moderate, but deep; 
 aperture well rounded. Amber colored. 

Diam. 6, altitude 3 mill. 

New York to Ohio, and northwards to Great Slave Lake. 

More conical and rather larger than H. arhorea This spe- 
 cies was first detected by Dr. Ingalls at Greenwich, New 
 York, who called it H. hydro2oldla. It was subsequently 

OP coNcnoLOOY. 251 

ascertained to be one of the few European species common 
 to both continents. It has been known among American 
 conchologists, until recently, as IT. lucida, Drap., which is, 
 however, a synonym of S^. nitida, Miill. 

14. Hyalina arborea, Say. 

Plate 3, figure 17. 
 Whorls 4 1, regularly and moderately increasing, depressed 
 turbinate, thin, amber colored, smooth, shining; lip slightly 
 flexuose ; umbilicus moderate and deep. 

Diam. 5 — 6 mill. 

Georgia and northwards beyond Canada ; westwards to the 
 Rocky Mountains ; Los Angeios Co., California. 

15. Hyalina electrina, Gould. 

Plate 4, figure 25. 
 Whorls 3|, depressed, pale, shining, the last rapidly en- 
 larging towards the mouth ; umbilicus very small, deep ; lip 
 not flexuous. 
 Diam. 4 mill. 

Maine to Georgia, and westwards to Iowa. 

Differs from H. arborea in its pale color, more depressed, 
 smaller, fewer whorls, and their more rapid increase, and very 
 narrow umbilicus. 

16. Hyalina ottonis, Pfeiffer. 

Plate 4, figure 20. 
 Orbicularly depressed ; whorls 4, very light colored, nearly 
 white, suture narrow, periphery angular; superior surface of 
 whorls obliquely declining, inferior well rounded ; umbilicus 
 narrow and deep. 

Diam. 5, altitude 2-5 mill. 

Florida and West Indies. 

Much lighter colored and smaller than IT. arborea, also 
 angled at the periphery and not so widely umbilicate. 

252 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

17. Hyalina vortex, Pfeiffer. 

Plate 4, figure 28. 

Very much depressed above, almost planorboid, suture 
 deeply impressed, white, shining ; whorls 5, convex beneath ; 
 umbilicus narrow and deep. 

Diam, 5 mill. 

Florida and Cuba. 

Has one more whorl, and is more depressed than the other 
 species, also lighter in color. 

18. Hyalina capsella, Gould. 

Plate 3, figure 20. 
 Whorls 6|, planorboid, closely revolving, glistening; am- 
 ber colored, with distant striae; aperture narrow, semilunar, 
 extending to the centre of the base, which is minutely per- 
 forate. 

Diam. 5, altitude 2-5 mill. 

East Tennessee. 

ttttt iShell minute, not exceeding 3 mill 
 19. Hyalina Binneyana, Morse. 

Plate 4, figure 31. 

Whorls 4, spire slightly elevated, pellucid, nearly colorless; 
 aperture well rounded ; umbilicus moderate. 

Diam. 3, height 1| mill. 

Maine. 

Differs from IT. minuscula in having the spire a little ele- 
 vated, and from H. electrina in being smaller and not iticreas- 
 ing the whorls so rapidly. If Hyalina is not adopted as a 
 genus, we suggest the name Helix Morsei for this species, as 
 Binneyana is pre-occupied in that genus. 

OP coNcnoLOQY. ' 253 

20. Hyalina ferrea, Morse. 

Plate 4, figure 33. 
 Whorls 3, not shining, steel grey ; last whorl rapidly en- 
 larging ; aperture very large, well rounded; spire slightly 
 elevated, suture distinct, deeply channeled near the apex; 
 umbilicus small and abrupt, exhibiting all the volutions; 
 periostraca minutely marked with fine revolving lines. 
 Diam. 2-5, height 1-25 mill. 

Maine. 

Distinguished from H. electrina by having fewer whorls 
 and being smaller in size, also in having a larger umbilicus 
 and revolving strias. 

Mexican Species. 
 Hyalina bilineata, Pfeiffer. 

Plate 4, figure 30. 

Whorls 5, shining, light horn color, with a narrow brown 
 band above the periphery and another below the suture; spire 
 slightly elevated, suture not much impressed; umbilicus nar- 
 row. 

Diam. 15, height 7 mill. 

Hyalina zonites, Pfeiffer. 

Plate 4, figure 29. 

Whorls 6, closely and roughly striate, shining, light horn 
 color, with a narrow, brown band revolving above the peri- 
 phery, and scarcely concealed above by the spire ; spire some- 
 what elevated, suture distinct ; base with the striae not half so 
 numerous, and much more polished; umbilicus moderate. 

Diam. 25, height 12o mill. 

254 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

GASTRODONTINtE. 

Genera. 
 * Not dentate. 

1. Mesomphix, Eafinesque. Shell moderate in size, um- 

bilicate or perforate ; aperture obliquely semihmar. 

2. CoNULUS, Fitzinger. Shell minutely conical, imperfo- 

rate or perforate; aperture depressed transverse, its 
 lower margin extending to the basal axis of the shell. 

** Lamcllarhj dentate. 
 f Outer whorl dentate. 

3. Gastrodonta, Albers. Shell minute, with one or more 

laminte revolving within the base. Surface nearly 
 smooth, polished. 

f f Outer whorl and columella hath dentate. 

4. Strobi LA, Morse. Shell minute, Avith laminre both on 

the base and the columella. Surface strongly striate. 

MESOMPHIX, Raf. 

a. Diam. == 10 — 15 mill. 

1. Mesomphix iiitertexta, Binney. 

Plate 4, figure 33. 

Subglobose, whorls 6 — 7, closely striated, sometimes with 
 very faint revolving lines, yellowish horn color, slightly 
 angled, and sometimes with a light and beneath it an ill-de- 
 fined brown 'band at the periphery. Very convex below. 
 Aperture obMque, narrow lunate, base of shell thickened by 
 a calcareous deposit within ; umbilicus small. 

Diam. 19 mill. 

Western New York to Georgia, and westward to Missouri 
 and Iowa. 

Larger than the next, and not quite so conical; the slightly 
 angled periphery and bands of color, when ])resent, offer dis- 
 tinctive characters. The shell is also thicker and not so pel- 
 lucid, and frequently exhibits spiral lines, not visible on lUjcra. 

OP coNcnoLOQY. 255 

2. Mesomphix ligera, Say. 

Plate 4, figure 34. 
 Subgloboso, elevated, obtusa, yellowish horn color, translu- 
 cent, shining, whorls 6 — 7, closely striated ; aperture obliquely 
 narrowly semilunar, shell thickened within at the base ; um- 
 bilicus narrow, sometimes closed. 

Diam. 12—15 mill. 

All the Middle and Western States. 
 See the distinctive characters under H. inlerkxtx. 

3. Mesomphix demissa, Binney. 

Plate 4, figure 35. 
 Depressed convex, Avhorls 6, shining, yellowish horn-color, 
 thickly, but not coarsely, striate, base ratlier lluttcned, umbil- 
 icus very small ; aperture very oblique, ahnost transversely 
 compressed-lunate, base of shell thickened within. 

Diam. 10—12 mill. 

Western Pennsylvania ; fossil in Alabama and Texas. 

Much more depressed, more solid, and usually smaller than 
 H. ligera. 

b. Diam.==6 — 7 7nill. 
 4. Mesomphix cerinoidea, Anthony. 

Plate 4, figure 3G. 
 Sub globose, whorls 6, shining, yellowish horn-color, almost 
 smooth, convex below, umbilicus very narrow ; aperture semi- 
 lunar, somewhat oblique, base of shell slightly thickened within. 

Diam. G— 7 mill. 

North Carolina. 

Smoother and more depressed, but otherwise a miniature 
 edition of J/, li'jdra. 

256: AMERICAN JOURNAL 

CONULUS, Fitz 

a. Diam.=2l — 3 mill. 

1. Conulus chersina, Say. 

Plate 4, figure 37. 

Wliorls 5 — 6, convex, sub-conical, thin, pellucid, smooth^ 
 shinino", amber-colored, suture well impressed ; aperture nar- 
 rowly transverse, base convex, indented around the closed 
 umbilicus. 

Diam. 2|, height 2 mill. 

The whole country westward to Rocky Mountains ; San 
 Gorgonio Pass, Los Angelos Co., California. 

This shell is not the C.fulva, of Europe, with which it has 
 been confounded ; the differences pointed out by Mr. Morse, in 
 his "Shells of Maine," appear to be constant. 

2. Conulus Fabricii, Beck. 

Plate 4, figure 38. 
 Whorls 6, convex, sub-conical, apex rather acute, suture 
 profound ; whorls striate, narrow, last whorl wider, base con- 
 vex, impressed at the axis, which is nearly imperforate; aper- 
 ture transversely lunar ; color fulvous, pellucid. 
 Greenland. 
 Scarcely distinguished from No. 1 by the sub-perforate 
 umbilicus. 

3. Conulus Gundlachi, Pfeiffer. 

Plate 4, figure C4. 
 Turbinate, shining, fulvous ; whorls 5, convex, the last sub- 
 planulate at base, excavated around the perforation, faintly 
 marked with revolving lines; aperture depressed lunar. 

Diam. 2|, height If mill. 

Florida, Cuba. 
 More depressed than No. 2. Differs from No. 1 in the per- 
 forate axis. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 251 

1). Diam.=ll mill. 
 4. Conulus minutissima, Lea. 

Plate 4, figure 03. 
 Globosely turbinate, above obtusely elevated, below con- 
 vex, fuscous, miuutely striate ; wliorls 4 ; aperture transverse- 
 ly lunar, umbilicated. 

Diam. 1|, height 1 mill. 

Maine to Pennsylvania, Ohio. 

Distinguished by its small size, striate surface, and well de- 
 veloped umbilical opening. 

Mr. Morse has distinguished this species as the genus Punc- 
 tum, (sub-family Punctinse^ from the peculiar conformation of 
 the buccal plate, which is divided into sixteen distinct pieces. 

This is the smallest of our species. 

GASTRODONTA, Albers. 
 1. Gastrodonta gularis, Say. 

Plate 4, figure 39. 

Sub-conical, shining, yellowish horn-color, translucent ; 
 whorls 7 — 8, striate; suture moderately impressed, aperture 
 transverse, rather narrow, margin sharp, extending beneath to 
 the centre of the base, which is barely perforate or closed ; 
 within thickened at the base by a callus deposit, and having 
 two parallel lamellar teeth, extending nearly to the basal mar- 
 gin of the lip. 

Diam. 7—9, height 5—7 mill. 

East Tennessee, Georgia, Alabama. 

Sometimes one tooth is wantins;. 

2. Gastrodonta lasmodon, Phillips. 

Plate 4, figure 40. 

Depressed orbicular, shining, corneous, translucent ; whorls 

7, narrow, very slowly increasing, minutely striate, suture 

moderately marked ; aperture nearly circular, laminal teeth 

upon the internal base of the lip ; umbilicus large and deep. 

Diam. 6, height 3 mill. 

East Tennessee, North Alabama. 

Much more depressed than the other species. Is smaller 
 than No., 1, and differs from it in the large umbilicus. 

258 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

8. Gastrodonta suppressa, Say. 

Plate 4, figure 41. 
 Convexly depressed, thin, spire flattened, shining, pellucid ; 
 whorls 6, slowly increasing, minutely striate above, beneath 
 more flattened and smooth, suture moderately marked ; aper- 
 ture transversely semi-circular, callously thickened within at 
 the base, with two parallel lamellae ; umbilicus merely perfo- 
 rated, sometimes covered. 

Diam. 6, height 4 mill. 

Middle States and Ohio. 

lias one whorl less and is more depressed and smaller than 
 No. 1 ; sometimes there are three instead of two teeth. 

4. Gastrodonta interna, Say. 

Plate 4, figure 43. 

Convexly orbicular, reddish-brown, shining, covered above 
 with close, rounded, very distinct ribs, beneath smooth ; whorls 
 8, narrow, very slowly increasing, suture deeply impressed, 
 periphery slightly angled ; aperture transverse, narrow, within 
 thickened, especially at base, with two short lamellge near the 
 outer portion of the basal margin ; margin extending to the axis 
 beneath, which is sometimes narrowly perforate, but frequently 
 closed. 

Diam. 6, height -i mill. 

West Pennsylvania to Georgia, and westwards to Missouri. 

5. Gastrodonta multidentata, Binney. 

Plate 4, figure 43. 

Depressed, thin, yellowish horn-color, smooth, shining, pel- 
 lucid; whorls 6, slowly increasing, suture impressed; aperture 
 transverse, narrow, lip extending to the perforated axis, base 
 convex, thickened within the aperture, through which may be 
 seen two to four rows of 5 or 6 teeth each, radiating from the 
 axis towards the circumference, upon the base of the outer 
 whorl; teeth situated far within, and last row not usually visi- 
 ble from the aperture. 

Diam. 3, height 1| mill. 

Green Mountains, Vermont, North-east New York. Maine. 

Eeadily distinguished by the teeth and size of the shell. 

OF CONCriOLOGY. 259 

STROBILA, Morse. 
 1. Strobila labyrinthica, Say, 

Plate 4, figure 44. 

Obtuse-conic, brownish; whorls 6, heavily ribbed above, 
 more slightly so beneath, suture well impressed, lip thickeaed, 
 somewhat reflected, with two revolving larniniie upon the base, 
 not visible from the aperture, but seen through the shell. Upon 
 the body are three revolving laminas, and on the columella 
 another. Base flattened, umbilicus small, impressed. 

Diarn. 2i height 2i mill. 

Maine to Maryland, Mississippi, Texas, Arkansas, Western 
 States. 

2. Strobila Hubbardi, Brown. 

Plate 4, figure 45. 

Depressed, thin, striated above, smooth beneath, brownish, 
 thin; whorls 5, with two parietal revolving laminae, and two 
 more far within on the outer whorl ; umbilicus rather wide, 
 lip slightly reflected, 

Diam. 2i, height li mill. 

Indianola, Texas. 

May be distinguished from No. 1 by the teeth being more 
 depressed and having a large umbilicus. 

PATULIN^. 

Genera, 

1. Anguispira, Morse. Shell heavy, large, depressed- tur- 

binate, solid, ribbed-striate, banded or stripedj umbilicus 
 moderate ; aperture not toothed. 

2. Patdla, Hald. Shell moderate, rather heavy, discoidal. 

a little convex above, concave below, ribbed-striate, 
 unicolored ; umbilicus very ivide but shallow, exhibiting 
 all the volutions. 

3. Plaxogyra, Morse. Shell minute, perfectly flat above, 

umbilicus moderate ; whorls very convex, the last one 
 crossed by from 20 to 25 sharp raised ribs. Unicolored, 

4. IIelicodiscus, Morse. Shell minute, planorboid; whorls 

equally visible above and bolow, revolving on the same 
 plane, externally with revolving stride ; aperture lamel- 
 larly toothed within the outer lip. Unicolored. 

260 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

5. PsEUDOHYALiXA, Morse. Shell minute, discoidal, slight- 
 ly convex above, unicolored, closely striate or ribbed ; 
 umbilicus large. 

Distinguished from Patida by the minute size and more 
 moderate umbilicus. 

ANGUISPIEA, Morse. 
 a. Not cannate^ sometimes slightly angulate on the 'peri'phery. 
 1. Anguispira solitaria, Say. 

Plate 4, figure 46. 
 Globose, thick, coarsely striate; spire turbinately elevated, 
 apex obtuse, suture distinctly impressed; whorls 6, well 
 rounded ; body large, well rounded, beneath very convex ; 
 aperture sub-circular, the extremities of the lip approaching 
 upon the body ; umbilicus large, deep, exhibiting all the volu- 
 tions. Dark corneous, with (generally two) rufous revolving 
 bands; sometimes nearly white and without bands. 

Diam. 25, height 16 mill. 

Ohio to Nebraska, and south to Ohio Eiver. 

2. Anguispira Idahoensis, Newcomb. 

Plate 4, figure 54. 

Turbinately conic, ashy horn-color; apex obtuse; whorls 
 5, very convex, the first nearly smooth, the others strongly 
 transversely ribbed, ribs on last whorl numbering 20 — 26; 
 aperture circular, very oblique; deeply and moderately uin- 
 bilicate. 

Diam. 13, akitude 11 mill. 

Idaho Territory. 

Distinguished from all the other species by its more conical 
 form, and sharp, distinct, distant ribs, . 

3. Anguispira Cooperii, W. G. Binuey. 

Plate 4, figure 53. 
 Globosely elevated, solid, obliquely roughly striated, inter- 
 sected by delicate, spiral lines; spire elevated, obtuse, suture 
 deeply impressed; whorls 5, convex; body very convex, de 
 fleeted at the aperture ; aperture very oblique, circular, extrem- 

OF CONCHOLOQY. 261 

ities of margin nearly joining, connected by a heavy callus; 
 umbilicus moderate, deep. White variously marked with a 
 single narrow, brown baud, or two bands, or broader longitu- 
 dinal and spiral patches. 

Diam. 15—25, height 9—12 mill ' 

Nebraska, Washington Territory. 

Smaller than No. 1, with rougher strias, and revolving lines; 
 the umbilicus is also proportionally smaller. In some speci- 
 mens the spire is more flattened. 

4. Anguispira alternata, Say. 

Plate 4, figure 47. 

Convex, more or less elevated, obliquely closely ridge-striated ; 
 spire slightly or considerably elevated, suture well marked ; 
 whorls 6, moderately increasing, not very convex; body mode- 
 rate, very convex beneath, often slightly angled at the periph- 
 ery ; aperture f-ths circular, oblique; umbilicus large and deep, 
 exhibiting the volutions. Light corneous, variegated by ob- 
 lique irregular brown stripes or spots above and below. 

Diam. 20-25, height 8-10 mill. 

Whole country eastward of Eocky Mountains, 

Varies considerably in ornamentation, convexity of the 
 upper surface, and prominence of the rib-like striee. 

Var. Fergusonii, Bland. Smooth, never earinated. 
 Diam. 15, height 6 mill. 

New York, New Jersey, 
 Var. alba, Tryon. Perfectly colorless. 

Maine, (Morse.) Michigan, (Currier.) 

5, Garinate. 

5. Anguispira strigosa, Gould. 

Plate 4, fig. 49. 
 Depressed orbicular, thick, striate; spire not much elevated* 
 flattened, suture impressed; whorls 5; body moderately large, 
 angulate at periphery, strongly deflected at aperture; aperture 
 obliquely circular, lip very nearly continuous; umbilicus 
 wide and deep. Ash-grey to brown, with generally a faint 
 medial band, and numerous bands beneath it. 

Diam. 20-25, height 10-12 mill. 
 Washington Territory, Oregon, Nebraska, N. Mexico. 

262 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

6. Anguispira Cumberlandiana, Lea. 

Plate 4, figure 4S, 
 Lenticular, acutely carinated, thin, coarsely ribbed, striate; 
 spire convex, mucb depressed, suture not prominent; whorls 
 5, slowly increasing, margined by a carina; aperture some- 
 what rhomboidal; umbilicus broad and deep. Pale yellowish 
 or ash-color, with irregular transverse brown blotches. 

Diam. 13-18, height 5-6 mill. 

E. Tennessee. 

Very close in color and stnation to alternala, but difters en- 
 tirely in its very depressed, lenticular form and very acute 
 carina. 

PATULA, Held. 
 1. Patula perspectiva, Say. 

Plate 4, figure 50, 

Nearly discoidal, slightly convex above, and concave be- 
 low, strongly striate; whorls 6, suture deeply impressed; aper- 
 ture small, fths rounded, generally in adult shells with a very 
 slight tubular thickening (scarcely a tooth) within the base; 
 umbilicus very wide, cup shaped, shallow, exhibiting all the 
 volutions. Corneous, reddish-brown. 

Diam. 9, height 3 mill. 

W. New York to N. Georgia, westward to Arkansas and 
 Michigan. 

The tooth described by Binney appears to be an imperfectly 
 developed fulcrum. 

2. Patula striatella, Anth. 

Plate 4, figure 51. 
 Depressed convex, nearly discoidal; whorls less than 4, with 
 delicate oblique striae; suture distinct; aperture rounded, 
 transverse; umbilicus very large, shallow. Light horn-color. 

Diam. 5, height 2| mill. 

Maine to Great Slave Lake, B. A., southwards through W. 
 New York and Pennsylvania to Ohio Eiver, and westward to 
 Kansas; District of Columbia. 

Much smaller, with fewer whorls, and more elevated than 
 No. 1. In the New England States it entirely replaces S. 
 perspectiva. 

OF CONCilOLOQY. 263 

3. Patula Durantii, Newcomb. 

Plate 4, figure 53. 

Depressed, discoidal, opaque, very minutely striated; spire 
 not at all elevated, perfectly plane above; whorls 4, the last 
 shelving; suture linear; aperture rounded, lunate, ends of lip 
 margin approaching; broadly and perspectively umbilicated. 
 Pale corneous. 

Diam. 5, height If mill. 

Santa Barbara Island, Cal. 

4. Patula Whitneyi, Newcomb. 
 Nearly flat above, smooth, suture well impressed ; whorls 4 ; 
 aperture lunate; with a perspective umbilicus. Smoky horn- 
 color. 

Diam. 5, height 2| mill. 

Sierra Nevada, Cal. 

5. Patula Cronkheitei, Newcomb. 

Somewhat depressed, a little convex above, rihhed-striate ; 
 whorls 4, suture wide and deep, almost channeled; aperture 
 rounded; umbilicus large, somewhat perspective. Yellowish 
 horn-color. 

Diam. 5, height 3| mill. 

Klamath Valley, Oregon. 

More elevated and more strongly striate and sutured than 
 stnatella, Anth. 

PLANOGYEA, Morse. 
 1. Planogyra asteriscus, Morse. 

Plate 4, figure 55. 

Elevated, planorboid ; whorls 4, very convex ; suture deep ; 
 surface with 25-30 very oblique, thin, raised ribs, between 
 which it is finely striate; umbilicus moderately large, show- 
 ing all the volutions, Lightbrown. 

Diam 1|, height f mill. 

Maine, Massachusetts. 

Differs from exigua, Stimp., by being smaller, the spire not 
 elevated, and ribs not so numerous. 

264 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

HBLICODISCUS, Morse. 
 1. Helicodiscus lineata, Say. 

Plate 4, figure 60. 

Discoidal, greenish-yellow; whorls 4, visible below as well 
 as above, with nuinerous parallel revolving lines, suture well 
 impressed; aperture narrow-lunate; base shallow-concave; a 
 pair of teeth within the outer lip, remote from the margin, 
 and another pair further within and visible through the trans- 
 lucent periphery, in each pair one being placed above, the 
 other below it. 

Diam. 3 mill. 

Maine to Virginia, westwards to Ohio, Texas. 

PSEUDOIIYALINA, Morse. 

* Diam. = 5 mill. 

1. Pseudohyalina limatula, AYard. 

Plate 4, figure 65. 
 Almost planorboid; whorls 4|, increasing regularly, well 
 rounded; suture very distinctly impressed; aperture small, al- 
 most round ; umbilicus rather large, as wide as the last whorl, 
 well defined and deep. Color very light, nearly white. 

Diam. 5 mill. 

New York, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan. 

** Diam. = 2| mill. 
 2. Pseudohyalina minuscula, Binney. 

Plate 4, figure 62. 
 Whorls 4, depressed, whitish, slowly increasing in diameter; 
 suture deep; aperture sub-rotund; umbilicus large and deep. 

Diam. 2,— 2| mill. 

United States east of Eocky Mountains, from Maine to 
 Florida, and West Indies. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 365 

3. Pseudohyalina incrustata, Poey. 

Plate 4, figure 61. 

Depressed, spire slightly elevated, suture deep ; whorls 4-5, 
 well rounded, slowly increasing; mouth expanding, nearly 
 circular, the ends of the lip-margin closely approaching and 
 united by a callus; umbilicus one-third the entire diameter, 
 showing all the whorls. BroAvn, with a ferruginous deposit. 

Diam. 3, height 1| mill. 

Texas (from Cuba.) 

4. Pseudohyalina conspecta, Bland. 

Plate 4, figure 58. 
 Umbilicate, sub-depressed, thin, with oblique, rather distant, 
 rib-like striae ; dark horn color ; spire convex, apex obtuse, 
 smooth, suture deep ; whorls 4, convex, gradually increasing, 
 slightly descending towards the mouth ; aperture oblique, lu- 
 nate-rounded, margins approaching. 

Diam. 2, altitude 1 mill. 

San Francisco, California. 

The spire is more raised, and the ribs more numerous and 
 not so prominent as in H. asteriscus. It is distinguished from 
 H. Mazatlanica,hj its more distinct ribs and smaller umbilicus. 

5. Pseudohyalina exigua, Stimpson. 

Plate 4, figure 57. 
 Discoidal, a little convex above, suture moderate; whorls 
 3 1, spirally striate, with oblique transverse ribs ; aperture 
 rounded; umbilicus wide, shallow, exhibiting the volutions. 

Diam. If mill. 

Canada, Massachusetts, Minnesota, around Lake Superior. 

6. Pseudohyalina millium, Morse. 

Plate 4, figure 56. 
 Depressed, convex above, -transparent, shining, distinctly 
 and regularly striate above, with microscopic revolving lines, 
 more apparent beneath; whorls convex, rapidly enlarging; 
 suture very deeply impressed ; umbilicus quite large and deep, 
 exhibiting all the volutions. White, with a greenish tinge. 

Diam. 1\, height | mill. 

Maine. 

266 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Mexican Species. 

Pseudohyalina Mazatlanica, Pfeiflfer. 

Plate 4, figure 59. 
 Depressed, umbilicate, costato-striate, corneous ; whorls 4, 
 somewhat convex, the spire slightly raised ; last whorl narrow, 
 scarcely descending at the aperture; umbilicus equalling J of 
 the diameter; aperture oblique, Innately rounded, its margins 
 approaching. 

Diam. 2-3, altitude 1 mill. 

Mazatlan, Mexico. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 26t 

GLANDINA. 

Syxoxymy and Reference to 
 Plate 1. 

Figs. 1,2. G. TRUNCATA, Gmelin. Systema Naturae, p. 

3434, (1788.) No. 1. 

Binney, Terr. Moll., ii., p. 301, t. 59, 60, (1851.) 
 W. G. Binney, Terr. Moll., iv., p. 141, t. 80, f. 
 9, (1859.) 
 Polyphemus glans, Say, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci- 
 ences, i, p. 282, (1818.) 

Fig. 3. G. PARALLELA, Wm. G. Binney. Proc. Acad. 

Nat. Sciences, p. 189, (1857.) No. 2 

G. parallela, W. G. Binney, Terrest. Moll., iv., 

p. 140, (1859.) 
 Q. truncata, var. Binney, 1. c, p. 302, t. 62, f. 
 2, (1851.) 
 " 4. G. Texasiana, Pfeiffer. Proc. Zoological Soc, 

London, (1856.) No. 3. 

Novitates Conchologicse, viii., p. 82, t. 22, f. 

11, 12, (1857.) 
 W. G. Binney, Terrest. Moll., iv., p. 140, t. 

77, f. 21, (1859.) 
 O. truncata^ var. Binney, 1. c, p. 302, t. 61, f. 
 2, (1851.) 

" 5. G. BULLATA, Gould. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. 

Hist., iii, p. 64, (Oct. 1848.) No 4. 

Binney, Terrest. Moll., ii., p. 298, t. 62a, 
 (1851.) 

" 6. G. Vanuxemenii, Lea. Trans. Amer, Philos. 

Soc, v., p. 84, 1. 19, f. 78, (1837.) No. 5. 

Binney, 1. c, p. 299, t. 62, f. 1, (1851.) 

" 7. G. DECUSSATA, Dcshayes. In Ferussac Hist., 

ii., p. 182, t. 123, No. 47. No. 6. 

G. truncata, var. Binney, 1. c, p. 302, t. 61, f. 

1, (1851.) 
 G. corneola, W. G. Binney. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

Sciences, p. 189, (1857.) 
 W. G. Binney, Ter. Moll., Yol. iv., p. 139, 
 (1859.) 

268 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Fig. 8. G. TURRis, Pfeiflfer. Syrabolse, iii., p. 91, (1846.) No. 7. 
 Eeeve, Conchologia Iconica, Achatina, t. 13, 

No. 45, (1849.) 
 Carpenter, Catalogue of Keigen Collection, p. 

175, (1857.) 

" 9. G. Albersi, Pfeiffer. Proc. Zool. Soc. Lon- 
 don, p. 295, (1854.) _ No. 8. 
 Carpenter, Catalogue of Reigen Collection, p. 
 175, (1857.) 

SUCCINEA. 

Synonymy and Reference to 
 Plate 2 . 

1. S. ToTTENiANA, Lea. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. 

ii., p. 32, (1841.) No. 1. 

Binney, Terrestrial Mollusks of the United 
 States, t. 676, fig. 2, (1857.) 

2. S. INFLATA, Lea. 1. c. p. 32, (1841.) No. 2. 

S. campestris, Say, var. Binney, 1. c. ii., p. QQ, 

(1851.) 
 S. inflata, Lea. W. C Binney, Terrest. Moll., 

iv., p. 34, t. 80, f. 11, (1859.) 

3. S. UNICOLOR, Tryon. (Nov. species.) Ara.Journ, 

Conch., vol. ii.. No. 3, (1866.) No. 3. 

S. infiata, Lea, var. Pfeiffer, Monog. Hel viv., 
 iii., p. 16, (1853.) 

4. S. CAMPESTRIS, Say. Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., i., 

p. 281, (1818.) No. 4. 

Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 675, fig. 1, (1851.) 

5. S. Stretchiana, Bland. Annals N.Y.Lyceum 

of Nat. Hist., viii., (1865.) No. 5. 

6. S. EFFUSA, Shuttleworth. Pfeiifer, Monog. Hel. 

Viv., iii., p. 17, (1853.) No. 6. 

W. G. Binney, 1. c. iv., p. 41, t. 80, fig. 12, 
 (1859.) 

7. S. OBLIQUA, Say. St. Peter's Expedition, ii., 

p. 260, t. 15, f. 7. (1824.) No. 7. 

Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 69, t. 67/>, fig. 3, (1851.) 
 S. ovalis, Say. Journ. Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci., 
 i., p. 15, (1817.) ii., p. 163, (1821.) 

OF CONCHOLOaY. 2C9 

S. lineata, DeKay. N. Y. Mollusca, p. 53, t. 

iv., f. 51, (1843.) 
 S. campestris, of American authors generally. 

Fig. 8. S. Greerii, Tryon. (Nov. species.) Amer. 

Jour. Conchology, ii., No. 3, (1866.) No. 8. 

" 9. S. Grosvenorii, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci- 
 ences, p. 109, (1864.) No. 9. 

" 10. S. YERMETA, Say. New Harmony Dissemina- 
 tor, ii., No. 15, (1829.) No. 10. 
 S. avara, Say. Bianey, 1. c, ii., p. 73, (1851.) 
 W. G. Binney, 1. c, iv., p. 36, (1859.) 

" 11. S. AVARA, Say. St. Peter's Exped., p. 260, t. 

15, f. 5, (1824.) No. 11. 

Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 74, t. 67c., fig. 4, (1851.) 
 " 12. S. Wardiana, Lea. Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc, 

ix., p. 3, (1844.) 

" 13. S. GRCE^^LA:srDICA, Beck. Pfeiffer, Monog. Hel. 

Viv., ii., p. 529, (1848.) No. 12. 

W. G. Binney, 1. c. iv., p. 38, t. 80, fig. 4, 
 (1859.) 

" 14. S. Gabbii, Tryon. (Nov. species.) Am. Jour. 

Conchology, ii.. No. 3, (1866.) No. 13. 

" 15. S. Verrili, Bland. Annals N. Y. Lyceum, 

viii., (1865.) No. 14. 

" 16. S. LINEATA, W. G. Binney. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

Sciences, ix., p. 19, (1857.) No. 15. 

Ter. Mollusks, iv., p. 39, t. 80, fig. 5, (1859.) 

"■ 17. S. MooRESiAXA, Lea. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci- 
 ences, p. 109, (1864.) No. 16. 

" 18. S. Oregonensis, Lea. Proc. Amer. Philos. 

Soc, ii., p. 32, (1841.) No. 17. 

Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 77, t. 67c, fig. 2, (1851.) 

" 19. S. RUSTiCANA, Gould. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. 

Hist., ii., p. 187. (1846.) No. 18. 

Mollusca of U. S. Expl. Exped., p. 28, fig. 29, 

(1852.) 
 W. G. Binney, Ten\ Moll, iv., p. 6, t. 69, fig. 

14, (1859.) 

" 20. S. Haydeni, W. G. Binney. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

Sciences, x., p. 114, (1858.) No. 19. 

Terr. Mollusks, iv., p. 40, t. 79, fig. 1, (1859.) 

270 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Fig. 21. S. SiLLiMANi, Bland. Annals N. Y. Lye. Nat. 

Hist., viii., (1865.) No. 20. 

" 22. S. OVALIS, Gould. Invertebrata of Massachu- 
 setts, p. 194, f. 125, (1841.) No. 21. 
 Binney, 1. e. ii , p. 78, t. 67a, fig. 3, (1851.) 

" 23, S. DeCampii, Tryon. (Nov. species.) Amer. 

Jour. Conchology, ii., No. 3, (1866.) No. 22. 

" 24. S. HiGGiNsi, Bland. (Nov. species.) Amer. 

Jour. Conchology, ii., No. 3, (1866.) No. 23. 

" 25. S. EETUSA, Lea. Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, v., 

p. 117, t. 19, fig. 86, (1837.) No. 24. 

S. ovalis, Gld. (Part.) Binney, Terr. Moll., 

(1851.) 
 S. refnsa, Lea. W. G. Binney, Terr. Moll., iv., 
 p. 37, (1859.) 
 " 26. S. NuTTALLiANA, Lea. Trans. Am. Philos. 

Soc, ix., p. 4, (1844.) No. 25. 

Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 81, t. 67a, fig. 2, (1851.) 

" 27. S. WiLSONii, Lea. Proc. Acad, Nat. Sciences, 

p. 109, (1864.) No. 26. 

" 28. S. FoRSHEYi, Lea. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 

p. 109, (1864,) No. 27. 

" 29. S. coNCORDiALis, Gould. Proc. Boston Soc. 

Nat. Hist., iii., p. 38, (1848.) No. 28. 

Binney, L c, ii, p. 82, t. 67a, fig. 2, (1851.) 
 " 30. S. LUTEOLA, Gould. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. 

Hist., iii., p. 37, (1848.) No. 29. 

Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 75, t. 67c, fig. 1, (1851.) 
 ,S'. Texasiana, Pfeifi'er, 1. c, ii., p. 526, (1848.) 
 " 31. S. Hawkinsii, Baird. Proc. Zool. Soc. London. No. 30. 

" 32. S. Salliana, Pfeiffer. Proc. Zool. Soc. Lon- 
 don, p. 133, (1849.) No. 31. 
 W. G. Binney, 1. c, iv., p. 42, t. 79, fig. 18, 
 (1859.) 
 " 33. S. AUREA, Lea. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, ii., 

p. 32, (1841.) No. 32. 

Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 76, t. 67c, fig. 3, (1851.) 

" 34. S. Haleana, Lea, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 

p. 109, (1864.) No. 33. 

" 35. S. CINGULATA, Forbes. Proc. Zool. Soc, Lon- 
 don, p. 56, t. 9, fig. 8, (1850.) No. 34. 

OF CONCIIOLOOY. 271 

HELICELLID^. 

Synonymy and Eeference to 
 Plate 3. 

VITEINA. 

F\(y: 1. Y. LIMPIDA, Gould. Agassiz's Lake Superior, 

p. 243, (1850.) No. 1. 

Binuey, Terr. Mollusks, ii., p. 58, t. 67a, fig. 

1, (1851.) 
 V. Americana, Pfeiffer, Proc. Zool. Soc, Lon- 
 don, p. 156, (1852.) 
 V. 2^ellndda, (not of Mliller,) DeKay, Moll., 
 New York, p. 25, t. 3, figs. 4, 5, (1843.) 

" 2. Y. Angelica, Beck. Pfeiffer, Monog. Helice- 

orum Yiv., ii., p. 510, (1848.) No. 2. 

W. G. Binney, 1. c. iv., p. 33, t. 9, fig. 9, (1859.) 
 Helix pellucida, Fabricius, Fauna Groenland- 
 ica, p. 389, (1780.) 

" 3. Y. Pfeifferii, Newcomb. Proc. Cal. Acad. 

Nat. Sciences, p. 92, (1861.) No. 3. 

BINNEYA. 

"■ 4. B. NOTABiLis, Cooper. Proc. Cal. Acad. Nat. 

Sciences, (1863.) No. 1. 

MACROCYCLIS. 

" 5. M. Newberry AN A, W. G. Binney. Proc. Acad. 

Nat. Sciences, p. 115, (1858.) No. 1. 

W. G. Binney, 1. c. iv., p. 20, t. 76, fig. 7, 
 (1859.) 

•' 6. M. Yancouverensis, Lea. Trans. Am. Philos. 

Soc, vi., p. 87, t. 23, fig. 72, (1839.) No. 2. 

Binney, 1. c. ii, p. 166, t. 20, (1851.) 
 H. vellicata, Forbes, Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 
 p. 75, t. 9, fig. 1, (1850.) 

" 7. M. SPORTELLA, Gould. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. 

Hist., ii., p. 167, (1846.) No. 3. 

Mollusca U. S. Expl. Exped., p. 37, fig. 42, 

(1852.) 
 Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 211, t. 22a, fig. 1, (1851.) 

272 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Fig. S. M. CONCAVA, Say. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 

ii^, p. 159, (1821.) No. 4. 

Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 163, t. 21. (1851.) 
 "H. planorboides, Pfeiffer, Monog. Heliceorum, 

Viv. iii., p. 156, (1853.) 
 JI. dissidens, Desbayes, Hist. Nat. cles Moll., i., 
 p. 97, t. 84, figs. 1, 2. 

" 9. M. VoYANA, Newcomb. Am. Jour. Conch., i., 

p. 235, (1865.) No. 5. 

" 10. M. Blliotti, Eedfield. Annals N, Y. Lyceum 

Nat. Hist., vi., p. 170, t. 9, figs. 8-10, (1856.) No. 6. 
 Binney, 1. c. iii., p. 23, (1857.) 
 W. G-. B., 1. c. iv., p. 116, t. 77, fig. 18, (1859.) 

HYALINA. 

" 11 H. INDENTATA, Say. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 

ii, p. 372, (1822.) No. 1. 

Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 242, t. 29, fig. 2, (1851.) 

" 12 H. FRIABILIS, W. G. Binney. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

Sciences, p. 187, (1857.) No. 2. 

Terrest. MollusVs, iv., p. 106, t. 80, fig. 2, 
 (1859.) 

" 13 II. LiEVlGATA, Eafinesque. Pfeiffer, Monog. 

Hel. Yiv., i., p. 64, (1848.) No. 3. 

Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 225, t. 32, (1851.) 

" 14 H. LUCUBRATA, Say. New Harmony Dissemi- 
 nator, ii., p. 229, (1829.) No. 4. 
 Bland, Annals New York Lyceum, (1860.) 

" 15 H. CADUCA, Pfeiffer. Zeitschr. fiir Mai., p. 146, 

(1846.) No. 5. 

Monog, Hel. Yiv. i„ p., 89, (1848.) 
 Is not H. lucid)rata, of Say. 
 " 16 H. FULIGINOSA, Griffith. Binney, I.e. ii., p. 222, 

t. 31, (1851.) No. 6. 

" 17 H. ARBOREA, Say. Nicholson's EncycL, iv., t. 

4, fig. 4, (1816.) No. 16. 

Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 235, t. 29, fig. 3, (1851.) 

"18 H. SCULPTILIS, Bland. Annals N. Y. Lye, vi., 

p. 279, (1858.) No. 8. 

W. G. Binney, 1. c. iv., p. 110, t. 77, fig. 15, 
 (1859.) 

OP CONCnOLOGY. 2'73 

Fig.lO.H.CELLAKiA, Miiller. Hist. Verm., No. 230, 

(1774.) No. 9. 

Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 230, t 29, fig. 4, (1851.) 
 H. glaphyra, Say ? Nicholson's Encycl., iv., t. 
 1, fig. 3, (1816.) 

" 20. II. CAPSELLA, Gould. Binuey, 1. c. ii., p, 239, 

t. 29a, fig. 1, (1851.) No. 18, 

S. ixttula, Gould. (Pre-OG.) Proc, Bost Soc, 
 Nat. Hist., iii., p. 38, (1848.) 

HELLICELLIDyE. 

Synonymy and Reference to 
 Plate 4. 

HYALINA. 

21. n. KoPNODES, "Wra. G. Binney. Proc. Acad. 

Nat. Sciences, p. 186, (1857.) No. 7. 

Terr. Mollusks, iv., p. 104, t. 80, fig. 14, (1859.) 

22. H. INORNATA, Sav. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 

ii., p. 371, (1822.) No. 10. 

Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 227, t. 34, (1851.) 

23. H. SUBPLANA, Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 229, t. 33, 

(1851.) No. 11. 

24. H. NiTiDA, Miiller. Hist. Yerm., ii.. No. 234, 

(1774.) No. 13. 

K. lucida, Draparnaud. Hist, Nat. des Moll., 

p. 103, t. 8, figs. 11, 12, (1805.) 
 Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 233, t. 22a, fig. 2, (1851.) 
 S. hydrophila, Ingalls' MSS-, 

25. H. ELECTRiNA, Gould. Invertebrata of Mass., 

p. 183, fig. Ill, (1841.) No. 15. 

Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 236, t. 29, fig. 1, (1851.) 

26. H. OTTONis, Pfeiffer. Wiegmann's Archiv. 

fur Naturgesch, i., p. 251, (1840.) No. 14. 

Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 238, t. 29a. fig. 3, (1851.) 

27. H. Breweri, Newcomb. Proc. Gal. Acad. Nat. 

Sciences, p. 118, (1864.) No. 12. 

28. H. VORTEX, Pfeiffer. Arcbiv. fur Naturgesch., 

ii., p. 351, (1839.) No. 17. 

H. seknina, Gould. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 
 iii., p. 38, (1848.) 
 Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 240, t. 29a, fig. 2, (1851.) 

2Y4 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Fig. 29. H. ZONITES, Pfeiffer. Proc. Zool Soc, London, 
 p. 127, (1845.) 

" 30. H. BILINEATA, Pfeiffer. Proc. Zool. Soc, Lon- 
 don, p. 91, (1845.) 

" 81, H. BiNNEYANA, Morse. Portland Jour. Nat. 

Hist, i., (1864.) No. 19. 

" 32. H. FERREA, Morse. Portland Jour. Nat. Hist., 

i., (1864.) No. 20. 

MESOMPHIX. 

" 33. M. INTERTEXTA, Binnej, 1. c, ii., p. 206, t. 36, 

(1851.) No. 1. 

*' 34. M, LIGERA, Say. Jour. Acad, Nat. Sciences, 

ii., p. 157, (1821.) No. 2. 

Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 204, t. 35, (1851.) 
 S. Bafinesquea, Ferussac. Hist, Nat., t. 51a, 

fig- 5. 
 S. Wardiana, Lea. Trans. Am. Pbilos. Soc, 
 vi., p. 67, t. 23, fig. 82, (1839.) 

" 35. M. DEMissA, Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 232, t. 42, fig. 

1, (1851.) No. 3. 

" 36. M. CERINOIDEA, Anthony. Amer, Jour. Con- 

chology, p. 351, t. 25, fig. 3, (1866.) No. 4. 

CONULUS, 

*■' 37. C. CHERSiXA, Say. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., ii., 

p. 156, (1821.) No. 1. 

Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 243, t. 17, fig. 4, (1851.) 

*^ 38. C. Fabricii, Beck, Pfeiffer. Zeit. fur Mai., p. 

90, (1848.) No. 2. 

W. G. Binney, 1. c, iv., p. 120, t. 77, fig. 17, 
 (185^.) 

See also figures 63, 04. 

GASTEOBONTA. 

" 39. G. GULABis, Say. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 

ii., p. 156, (1821.) No. 1. 

Binney, I.e., ii,, p. 250, t. 37, figs. 3, 4, (1851.) 
 M. hicostata. Pfeifi'er. Monog, Hel, Yiv.^ i., p. 
 182, (1848.) 

OP CONCUOLOQY. 275 

Fig. 40. G. LASMODON, Phillips. Jour. Acad. Kat. Sci., 

viii., p. 182, (1842.) No. 2. 

Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 254, t. 37, fig. 2, (1851.) 
 H. macilenta, Shuttlewortli ? Bern. Mit., p. 
 195, (1852.) 

" 41. G. SUPPEESSA, Say. New Harmony Dissemi- 
 nator, ii., p. 229, (1829.) No. 3. 
 Binney, 1. c., ii., p. 253, t. 37, fig. 1, (1851.) 

" 42. G. INTERXA, Sav. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 

ii., p. 155, (1821.) No. 4. 

Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 247, t. 30, fig. 4, (1851.) 

" 43. G. MULTIDENTATA, Binney. I. c, ii., p. 258, t. 

48, fig. 3, (1851.) No. 5. 

STEOBILA. 

" 44. S. LABYRIXTHICA, Say. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci- 
 ences, i., p. 124, (1818) No. 1. 
 Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 202, t. 17, fig. 3, (1851.) 

" 45. S. HuBBARDi, Brown. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci- 
 ences, p. 333, (1861.) No. 2. 

ANGUISPIRA. 

" 46. A. SOLITARIA, Say. 1, c, ii., p. 157, (1821.) No. 1. 
 Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 203, t. 24, (1851.) 

" 47. A. ALTERN^ATA, Say. Nicholson's Encycl., 1st 

edit., t. 1, fig. 2, (1816.) No. 4. 

Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 212, t. 25, (1851.) 
 H. scahra, Lamarck, Anim. Sans. Vert., vi., p. 

288, (1822.) 
 R. infecta, Pfeiffer, Mai. Blatt., p. 86, (1857.) 
 H. stronrjylodes, Pfeiffer. Proc. Zool. Soc. 
 London, p. 53, (1854.) 

'•' 48. A. CuMBERLANDiANA, Lea. Trans. Amer. 

Philos. Soc, viii., p. 229, t. 6, fig. 61, (1843.) No. 6. 
 Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 216, t. 31, (1851.) 
 J7". ??20?-c/«a:, Shuttlewortli, Bern. Mittlieil, (1852.) 

" 49. A. STRIGOSA, Gould. . Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. 

Hist, ii., p. 166, (1846.) No. 5. 

Moll. U.S.Expl.Exped., p. 36, fig.41, (1852.) 
 Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 210, t. 26, (1851.) 
 {See also figs. 52, 54.) 

276 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

PATULA. 

Fig. 50 P. PERSPECTIVA, Say. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci- 
 ences, i., p. 18, (1817.) No. 1. 
 Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 256, t. 30, fig. 1, (1851.) 
 S. parvula^ Deshayes, Encycl. Meth., ii., p. 
 217, (1830.) 

•'• 51. P. STRIATELLA, Anthony. Bost. Jour. Nat, 

Hist., iii., p. 278, t. 3', fig. 2, (1840.) No. 2. 

Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 217, t. 30, fig. 2, (1851.) 
 {See also fig. 53.) 

ANGUISPIRA. 

{See fig. 49.) 

" 52. A, CooPERi, Wm. G, Binney. Proc. Acad. 

Nat. Sciences, p. 118, (1858.) No. 3. 

Terr. Moll., iv.. p. 97, t. 77, fig. 11, (1859.) 

PATULA. 

(See fig. 51.) 
 " 53. P. DuRANTi,Newcomb. Proc. California Acad. 

Nat. Sci., p. 118, (1864.) No. 3. 

ANGUISPIRA. 

(See fig. 49.) 
 '' 54. A. Idahoensis, Newcomb. Am. Jour. Con- 

chology, ii., p. 1, t. 1, figs. 1, 2, 3, (1866.) No. 2. 

PLANOGYRA. 

" 55. P. asteriscus, Morse. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. 

Hist., vi., p. 128, (1857.) No. 1. 

PSEUDOHYALINA. 

" oQ. P. MILLIUM, Morse. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 

vii., p. 28, (1859.) No. 6. 

W. G. I3inney, 1. c, iv., p. 101, t. 79, figs. 4, 
 5, (1859.) 

•' 57. P. EXIGUA, Stimpson. Proc, Bost. Soc. Nat. 

Hist, iii., p. 175, (1850.) No. 5. 

Binney, 1. c, iii., p. 16, t. 77, fig. 19, (1857.) 

" 59. P. CONSPECTA, Bland. Annals N. Y. Lyceum 

Nat, Hist., viii., (1865.) No. 4. 

" 58. P. Mazatlanica, Pfeiffer. Malak. Blatt., iii., 
 p. 43, (1856.) 

{See also figs. 61, 63, 65.) 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 27 T 

HELICODISCUS. 

Fio-.60. n. LiNEATA, Say. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 

i., p. 18, (1817.) No. 1. 

Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 261, t. 48, fig. 1, (1851.) 

PSEUDOHYALINA. 

{See fig. 59.) 

" 61. P. INCRUSTATA, Pocy. Memorias, i., p. 208, 

212, t. 12, figs, il-16, (1852.) No. 3. 

W. G. Binney, 1. c, iv., p. 68, )1859.) 
 S. saxicola, (not of Pfeiffer,) Binney, 1. c, 
 ii., p. 174, t. 29a, fig. 4, (1851.) 

" 62. P. MiNuscuLA, Binney. 1. c, ii., p. 221, t. 17a, 

fig. 2, (1851.) No. 2. 

H. minutalis, Morelet, Testacea Novissiraa, ii., 

p. 7, (1851.) 
 JI. apex, Adams, Cont. to Concli., p. S6, (1849.) 
 JI. Lavalleana, H. Manriniana, D'Orb., Moll. 
 Cuba, p. 161, t. 8, figs. 20-22, (1853.) 

CONULUS. 

{See figs. 37, 38.) 

" 63. C. MiNUTissiMA, Lea. Trans. Amer. Philos. 

Soc, ix., p. 17, (1844.) No. 4. 

W. G. Binney, 1. c, iv., p. 100, t. 77, figs. 6, 
 7, (1859.) 
 H. minuscula, Binney, ii., p. 221, (1851.) 

" 64. G. GuNDLACHi, Pfeiffer. Wiegmann's Archiv. 

fiir Naturgesch., i., p. 250, (1840.) No. 3. 

H. egena, Gould, (not of Say,) in Binney, 1. c, 
 ii., p. 245, t. 22a, fig. 3, (1851.) 

PSELTDOHYALINA. 

{See Species 59. J 
 " 65. P. LiMATULA, Ward. Binney, 1. c, ii., p. 219, 

t. 30, fig. 2, (1851.) No. 1. 

PATULA. 

{See Species 53. J 

P. Whitneyi, Newcomb. Proc. Cal. Acad. 

Nat. Sciences, p. 118, (1864.) No. 4. 

P. Cronkhitei, Newcomb, 1. c, p. 180, (1865.) No. 5. 

278 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

DESCRIPTIONS OP AMERICAN FRESH- WATER 
 SHELLS. 

BY T. A. CONRAD. 

PHYSA, Drap. 

1. Physa pomilia, Conrad. — Plate 15, figs. 1, 2, 3. 

Description. — Shell elliptical, thin, translucent; whorls 5, 
 regularly rounded ; spire conical, short; aperture about two- 
 thirds the length of the shell, margin of labrum regularly 
 rounded ; base slightly produced. 

Inhabits Eandon's Creek, near Claiborne, Ala. 
 Physa pomilia, Conrad. — Amer. Journ, of Science and Arts, 
 Vol. 25, p. 343, 1834. 

ANCULOSA, Say. 

2. Anculosa pumila, Conrad. — Plate 15, fig. 5. 

Descrij^tion. — Obliquely ovate, spire consisting of one con- 
 vex whorl; apex eroded; color dark olive, almost black; aper- 
 ture obtusely subovate; base slightly grooved behind the re- 
 flexed labrum. 

Inhabits the Black Warrior Eiver, Ala. 

This small shell is supposed to belong to the family Amni- 
 colidse. 

VIVIPARUS, Lam. 

3. ViviPARUS GENICULUS, Conrad. — Plate 15, figs. II, 17. 

Paludina genicula, Conrad. 

Eeeve has erroneously referred this very distinct species to 
 V. ponderosa, Say, from which it is readily distinguished by 
 its scalariform spire, and thinness in the substance of the shell. 
 It is more nearly related to V. Integra, Say. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 219 

TJNIO, Retzius. 

4. Unio uber, Conrad. — Plate 15, fig. 16. 

Description. — Eounded, profoundly ventricose; posterior 
 slope Avith a shallow subangular groove; posterior margin 
 direct, extremity emarginate ; umbo broad, inflated ; epider- 
 mis brown above, pale olivaceous posteriorly and towards the 
 ventral margin ; within white, teeth very prominent. 

Inhabits the Alabama River, 

This species has some resemblance to a horse-chestnut. 

5. Unio fontanus, Conrad. — Plate 15, fig. 13. 

Desci'ijition. — Oblong, sub-compressed, thin in substance; 
 disks flattened in the middle; beaks slightly raised above the 
 hinge-line, undulated, decorticated; anterior margin regularly 
 rounded ; posterior extremity sub-truncated, or obtusely round- 
 ed ; color green above, yellowish below and on the posterior 
 slope, rays fine or linear, close, disappearing on the lower 
 part of the anterior side; umbonal slope undefined; posterior 
 slope with a slight oblique groove and raised line and distinct 
 green ray; within bluish, white on the ventral submargin; 
 lateral teeth single in both valves. 

Inhabits a rivulet near Yicksburg, Miss. 

I obtained one specimen only of this small species. 

6. Unio prasinatus, Conrad. — Plate 15, fig. 14, 

Description. — Trapezoidal, very inequilateral; beaks decor- 
 ticated, not plicate, hardly raised above the hinge-line; umbo- 
 nal slope subangulated ; posterior margin obliquely truncated, 
 extremity subangulated; color olivaceous, Avith numerous 
 close green rays, tinged with salmon-color; lateral teeth recti- 
 linear. 

Inhabits Florida, 

280 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

DESCRIPTIONS OP NEW MARINE BIVALVE 
 MOLLUSCA. 

BY T. A. COXRAD, 

DQSINIA, Scopoli. 

1. DosiNiA Floridana, Conrad. — Plate 15, fig. 4. 

Description. — Suborbicular. length rather more than the 
 height, moderately thick, lentiform, inequivalve ; posterior 
 margin widely subtruncated, direct, or with a slight inward 
 slope; concentric striae regular, seldom anastomosing towards 
 the ends, becoming obsolete towards the ventral margin; lu- 
 nule depressed, with angulated margins. 

Inhabits Florida Keys, Gulf of Mexico. 

The shell is of a pale straw-color, with a few yellowish- 
 brown irregular linear stains. 

AZARA, D'Orbigny. 

2. AzARA UNDATA, Conrad. — Plate 15, figs. 9, 10, 15. 

Description. — Triangular, rather elongated, ventricose, ine- 
 quilateral; lower valve waved, slightly constricted anteriorly; 
 umbonal slope angular ; upper subrostrated or subcuneiform ; 
 color bluish-white about the umbo and middle of the valves; 
 pale brown generally on the other parts, and hair-like brown 
 zig-zag lines on the anterior, conspicuous above and obsolete 
 below. 

Inhabits Rio de la Plata, S. A. 

This species differs from A. nimbosa, Sowerby. 

CORBULA, Brug. 

3. CoRBULA coNTEACTA, Say. — Plate 15, fig. 12. 

The figure is from a specimen found on the coast of North 
 Carolina. The shell is a true Corhula, not an Azara, as H. 
 and A. Adams suppose it to be. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 281 

PERIPLOMA, Sebum. 

4. Periploma papyeacia, Say. — Plate 15, fig. 6. 

This species is referred to in the Journal for January of the 
 present year, page 70, and is figured on Plate 4, fig. 9. The 
 illustration proving to be not so correct as desirable, I have 
 re-figured it, as above indicated. 

LUCINA, Lam. 

5. LuciNA LiNTEA, Conrad. — Plate 15, fig. 7. 

Description. — Suborbicular, ventricose ; beaks central ; disks 
 with close, radiating lines, and concentric, laraelliform, some- 
 what fringed stride; behind the umbonal slope is a slight fur- 
 row, or fold, minutely striated; cardinal and lateral teeth dis- 
 tinct; anterior cardinal area minutely wrinkled in the left 
 valve, margins crenulated within ; lunule acutely ovate, promi- 
 nent. 

Inhabits Tampa Bay, Florida. 

TELLINA, Lin. 
 Subgenus ANGULUS ? 

6. Tellina Tampaensis, Conrad. — Plate 15, fig. 8. 

Description. — Ovate-triangular, convex, inequilateral, very 
 finely and closely lined concentrically ; posterior margin ob- 
 liquely subtruncated, the extremity angulated and situated 
 much above the line of the base; cardinal teeth 2 in each 
 valve, with an approximate short lateral tooth in the left valve, 
 and a rudimentary lateral tooth in the opposite valve. 

Inhabits Tampa Bay, Florida. 

282 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Keference to Plate 15, 
 Illustrating Mr. Conrad^s Papers. 

Figures 1, 2, 8, PhysA pomilia, Conrad. 

" 4. DosiNiA Floridana, Conrad. 

" 5. Anculosa pumila, Conrad. 

" 6. Periploma papyracia, Saj. 

" 7. LuciNA LiNTEA, Conrad. 

" 8. Tellina Tampaensis, Conrad. 

" 9, 10, 15. AzARA UNDATA, Conrad. 

" 11, 17. ViviPARUS GENicuLus, Conrad. 

" 12. CORBULA CONTRACTA, Say. 

. " 13. Unio fontanus, Conrad. 

" 14. Unio prasinatus, Conrad. 

" 16. Unio ubeb, Conrad. 

OP ooNOHOLoar. 

REVIEWS 

I.— AMERICAN 

Proceedings of the Essex Institute. IV. No. 8. Salem, Mass. 
 June 3, 1866. 

Observations on Polyzoa; Suborder Phylactoloemata. BY 
 ALPHEUS HYATT. 

A very important paper, containing microscopical observa- 
 tions on the genera of American Fresh- water Polyzoa, (Bryozoa,) 
 — their structure and reproduction. Mr. Hyatt is the only 
 American author, except Dr. Leidy, who has investigated into 
 the history of this but little-known class of Mollusca. The 
 paper is illustrated by several plates, drawn with that skill and 
 finish which so eminently characterizes the pencil of Edward 
 S. Morse. 

2S4 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Transactions of the Academy of Science of St. Louis. Vol. II., 
 No. 2, 8vo. St. Louis, 186G. 

Some new varieties of Spirifer. BY G. C. SWALLOW. 

^S'. lineatus, Martin. S. Leidyi, Nor. and Prat. 

var. per/:)fexa, McChesnej. var. Chesterensis, Swal. 
 " striato-lineatus, Swal. " Merrimackensis,Swsi[. 

S. cameratus, Morton. S. increbescens^ Hall. 

Yur.percrassvs.Swal. \ar. Americana, Swal. 

JS. Kentuckensis, Shumard. S. Keokuk, Hall. 

ya,r. projmtulus, Swal. var. Shelhyensis. 

Descriptions of New Species of Bryozoa. BY DE. hiram a. 
 PROUT. (Fossil.) 

Fenestella nodosa^ Prout. 
 " dilata, Prout. 
 Polypora imhricata^ Prout. 

" rigid'i, Prout. 
 Retipora Harniltonensis, Prout. 
 Ptilodictya (Stictopora) variabilis, Prout. 

Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History of New York. YIII., 

Nos. 8, 9, 10. April, 1866. 

Notes on Species of the Family Corbiculadee, iviih Figures. 
 BY TEMPLE PRIME. (Continued.) 

This exceedingly valuable paper contains full descriptions 
 of species, and their distinctive characters. The wood engra- 
 vings are excellent. 

The new species are : — 

Corbicula Pisidiformis, Siam. 

" Stimpsoniaria, ? 

" vulgaris, ? 

Cyrena Mbrchiana. 

Corbicula notata. Prime, is made a synonym of G. Gumingii, 
 Desh., and Cyrena Corhiculseformis, Prime, a synonym of Ve- 
 lorita Cochine7isis, Hanley. 

Tables of the Rectification of Mr. T. A. Conrad's " Synopsis of 
 the Family Naiades of North America, by isaac lea, l.l.d. 
 (Forming Appendix IV. to Mr. Binney's Bibliography of North Amer- 
 ican Conchology. ) Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. 8vo. , 6pp. 
 Washington, 1866. 
 This is a reprint of part of a paper published by Mr. Lea, 

under the above title, in the Proceedings of the Academy of 

Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1854. 

OP coNciroLOGT, 285 

Catalogue of the Genera Helix, Anastoma, Hypselostoma, Strep- 
 taxis, Tomigerus,Bulimus,Orthalicus,Partula, in the collec- 
 tion of A. D. Brown, Princeton, New Jersey. (2d edit. ) Jan- 
 uary, 1866. 8vo., 65pp. 

The first edition, published in 1861, contained Terrestrial 
 Shells of all the genera — many of which are excluded from the 
 present Catalogue. Over thirteen hundred species are enume- 
 rated, showing a marked increase since 1861. The collection 
 of Mr. Brown is very rich in West Indian shells, particularly 
 in those of the Island of Jamaica. 

Note on the AflBlnities of the Bellerophontidae. by f. b. meek. 
 (From the Proceedings of the Chicago Academy of Sciences, Vol. I. 
 March, 1866) 

Mr. Meek considers these ancient Mollusks to have been Gas- 
 teropods, closely allied to Fissurellidse and Haliotidsx. 

Descriptions of Palseozoic Fossils from the Silurian, Devo- 
 nian and Carboniferous rocks of Illinois, and other West- 
 ern States. BY F. B. MEEK AND A. H. WORTHEN. 

Placunopsis carhonaria. Anthracoptera? fragilis, 

Aviculopecten randoljjhensis. 3Iyalina meliniformis. 

indianensis. Monopteria, N. sub. gen. 

" fimhriatus. Pterinea (Monopteria) gihhosa. 

Vanuxemia dixonensis. Pterinea f subpapyracea. 

Macrodon ienuistriatus. Amhonychia {Megaptera]casei. 
 Schizodus curtus. 

II.— FOREIGN. 

BRITISH. 

A Piain and Easy Account of the Land and Fresh-water Mol- 
 lusks of Great Britain ; containing Descriptions, Figures, and a 
 famiUar account of the habits of each species, by ralph tate. 18mo., 
 cloth, 244 pp,, London, 1866. (Price 4 shilUugs plain, or 6 shillings 
 colored.) 
 This little volume is more than it claims to be, and will 
 prove a very useful and entertaining pocket companion to tl e 
 well posted, as well as the uninitiated shell collectors of Eng- 
 land, The species are all illustrated by lithographic pla'.es 
 and wood cuts. 

286 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

ConcbolOgia Iconica. Parts 352, 253. (Price 20 shillings.) 

The present issue contains: — 
 Ceritkium, plates 11 to 20; completing the monograph. Oct. — 
 Dec, 1865. 

There are included in this genus, excluding Vertagus and 
 Gerithiopsis, but embracing Bittmm, one hundred and forty- 
 nine species. The following are described as new : — 

We notice, that in two cases, localities are given incorrectly, 
 in ascribing to the United States species which are far-distant 
 in their habitat. Thus, G. Janthinum, " Clermont-Tonerre, 
 (Island) U.S.," and G. lacertinum, "Sydney Ilarbor, U. S." 
 The latter species was collected at Sydney, New South Wales, 
 by Dr. Wm. Stimpson, and Dr. Gould has appended the ini- 
 tials W. S. to the locality, as authority for it. Mr. Sowerby 
 has, perhaps, thought W. S. an error for U. S. 
 BuUma, 4 plates, Dec, 1865. 

M arcuata, Sowb., 

M solida, Sowb., . " 

JE. ^ubjyeUucida, Pease, " 

M Sandiuichensis, Sowb., " 

JE. conoidalis, Sowb., " 

JE. opaca, Sowb,, " 

E. retrorsa, Sowb., Tahiti. 

E. gracillima, Sowb., Guatemala. 

Sandwich Isles. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 287 

Yertagus, 2 plates, Dec, 1865. 

V. graniferus, Pease, Sandwicli Isles. 

Natural History Transactions of Northumberland and Durham. 
 Vol 1., No. 1. 8vo. Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 18G5. 
 Beports of Deep Sea Dredging on the Coasts of NortJmmher- 
 land and Durham, 1862-4. Edited by geobge s. 

BRADY. 

—Report on the Mollusca. BY JOSHUA ALDER, 

288 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

OBITUARY. 

M. CANTRAINE. 

Professor of Zoology at the University of Ghent. He pub- 
 lished in 1840, in the "Memoires de I'Acaddmie Royale de 
 Bruxelles, XIII.." and also separately in quarto a " Malaco- 
 logie Mediterraneenne," containing 173 pp., 4to., illustrated 
 by 6 beautiful colored plates. 

CHARLES A. POULSON. 

We have, finally, to mourn the death of one of the earliest 
 supporters of natural science, and of Conchology in particular, 
 in America. Mr. Poulson is known only by one publication 
 to naturalists generall}^ — by his " Monograph of the Bivalve 
 Shells of the River Ohio," being a translation of a work by 
 Rafinesque ; but to many of our earlier Conchologists he was 
 a firm friend, furnishing " aid and comfort " freely for the pro- 
 motion of their objects. He was also an enthusiastic collector, 
 and amassed a cabinet which, a few years ago, would have 
 been considered one of the best in the United States. By Mr. 
 Poulson's will this collection is to be appraised and offered at 
 private sale to public institutions; but should no sale be thus 
 effected, it will be disposed of at auction. 

AiiuM'icaii.loiiiualor ('()ii(li()l»)«J v lU(i() 

riiiiv xui. 

* 4l ♦ 

4 t 

4 

i 4 . 

9 

4 » 

r 

I 

/'Wy. /, . [chtiliticlUi htuacfi.-i.-^, AVi 

Antlioii Vi 

.•iiuriiitla 

ih H(i. S ^h-hfiHiicllt( iii.-oidfti Xcwroiiih. 

.. U> 

.. 11.12 

.. 13 

.. N 

.. IS 

IhvnjhI.,. 

filn.'fi 

linuy, 

Alrra,uln 

iimliilalti 

Fuf-lti . [clutlimlhi MduicTisis Xcnroiiih 

BowenLCo Uth Phjlada . 

Aiiioi-itaii.Iournalol' ("oncliolo'Jy 1H(!() 

rial.- \l\' 

Geo'vVTiryon jr, del 

■entColithPhilada. 

/ Croiiiohrauihn,-- jcfindnfii,-- l^d.^c 
 2 Sten (ulot 'h-<- rubvd . 1 Vv/ .-v . 

Inifricofi JonrTi<i/ t^l' (onrJioJoyy- 1S66. 

Fla/r /.7 

'^.^ 

(? 


C^> 


M 

A. .i.r i.".(i() fi i( 


Dr awTa"by ^ . J TJolaTv 

BowejxJ.Co.Iich PlTilada , 

it A .) i' l-'-'i*' I'' 

l'l;,l.' II 

^i ^ 0^ ^ * 


^ <^ 

^ 

^ ^ 4 M 

^. I. 


U 

24 S2 

Dr awTn.l:)y li . .TTSr61ai\ 

Bowei^J.Co lith.PhLl.,i.L< 

A .I.C l.".(i(,. I'l IB 

I Mat." in 

.. g^ ^: ■ ^ 


JT 

<^:^y% 

Dr awn.'by "E . J .tTolaTL 

BowenS^Co.lithPMlafLs . 

■ Hi 

f%) (My-O^f^^ ^^ 

r.j 



<^. ^ ,~.^ 

( @ , 

V_^ GO 


D r awi\lD V ^ . J-TsTdbot 

uj 64 

BoweixS, Co.lithPhilada . 

The undersigned, contemplating expensive arrangements for 
 the enlargement of his collection, will supply suites of 

TERTIARY AND CRETACEOUS FOSSILS, 

AND ALSO OF 
 LAND AND FRESH-WATER SHELLS 

Of Alabama and adjacent States, at the rate of 30 cents a species, 
 averaging six specimens to each speci.s; representing, when prac- 
 ticable, the different ages of the land and fresh-water shells. 

The more ponderous fossils will be represented by single speci- 
 mens, or by pairs. 

For further particulars communications are invited. 

E. R. SHOWALTER, 

UNIONTOWK, ALABAMA. 

FOR SALE OR EXCHANGE. 

The following BOOKS, duplicates in my Library, are offered 
 For Sale at the annexed prices, or will be Exchanged for Con- 
 chological Works. GEORGE W. TRYON, Jr., 

No. 625 Market Street, Philadelphia. 

NATURAL HISTORY OF NFAV YORK, 19 Vols.. 4to., nearly bound inhalf Morocco, with jriany 

b w udred Colored Plates \ $1 2."> 00 

The following separate Volumes also for sale, in the same binding : 

MAMMALIA. Ry.T.EDeKay. 33 colored plates 5 00 

ORNITHOLOGY. By J. E DeKny. .SSOup, 141 colored plates -20 oo 

HERPETOLOGY AND ICHTHYOLOGY. By J. E. DeKay. 2 Vols., 400 .p. text, 101 colored 

plates ] S 00 

ENTOMOLOGY. Hy E. Emmons. 272pp., 47 colored plntes 7 f.O 

AGRICULTUIIE. Ry E. Eiiiinona. ;^ Vols , 770pp . 140 colored plate.s of Fruits Vf'L'etf|lp|p« \-c ''GOO 

BOTANY Bv .T. Torrey. 2 Vols., 1000pp., 160 colored plate.s os 00 

GROLOGY. 4 Vols., lOOOpp . over 20(i plates and maps .t, no 

MINERALOGY By L n. Beck. 550pp ,j ,,0 

CUVIER REGNE ANIMAL. Vol. T , MAMMALIA, AVKS. 8vo , .iOOpp , 1S17 1 -.0 

CRrsTAGEANS, IXSKCTS. v<!ic S4 pp., 1817 09-, 

LINNiEUS SYST NAT. l.^lli Edit. MAMMALIA, AVES Sro.. 10.32pp , 1788 "' i" 7-, 

AMPHIBIA, PISC ES. .WOpp., 17SS 1 r,o 

1NSEi:TA. 2 Vols, l.ioiipp., 17?S 3 ,0 

M 1 N KR ALS. 47.5pp . 1 79;i , ,,0 

BROT CATALOGUE SYSTEMAT ^E^ MELANIAN-*. Svo , 72pp. Geneva. lS'i2 100 

COUTHUOY J P., DRS(^RIPTIONSOK NEW SPECIES OF SHELLS OF MASSACHU.SETTS 

BAY MO^OGRAPH OF OSTEODESMACEA, &c llSpp. 8vo. 8 plates I 7-, 

MIGHEL*;. 1" W., CATALOGUE OF THE SHELLS OF MAINE. Svo., 40iip.. ISii .,' 7.-, 

ENCYCLOPEDIE METHODIQUE. Zoophytes. By Lamouroux. St. Vincent ami no-^iop- 

champs. 4to. 182-'.. 2 Vols., 800pp. text, 100 plates 15 00 

GRAY, LESSONS IN BOTANY Svo . cloth. ISW 50 

BOTANY OF NORTHERN UNITED STATES, incliidina; MOSSES, i-c. S^-o, hulf M .- 

rocco, IS'^S 1 50 

GRAY, STRUCTURAL AND SYSTEMATIC BOTANY. Svo , half Moiocco. Ih.iS 100 

i^ 

CONTEHSfTS. 

PAGE 

1. Descriptions of New Species of Par tula, Inhabiting the Ta- 

hitian Archipelago, bj- W. Harper Pease 193 

2. Remarks on Nudibranehiata inhabiting the Pacific Islands, 

with Descriptions of two New Genera, by W. Harper Pease. 204 

3. Descriptions of Achatinellae, by Wesley Newcomb, M. D 209 

4. Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States, 

by George W. Tryon, Jr 218 

1. Preface. 

2. Introduction. 

3. Descriptions uf Species. 

4. Reference to Plates and Synonymy. 

:"-. Descriptions of American Fresh-water Stieils, by T. A.Conrad. 278 
 6. Descriptions of New Marine Bivalve Shells, by T. A. Conrad.. 280 

EDITOR'S TABLE. 

Reviews 283 

1. American. — Proceedings of the Essex Institute.— Transactions of the Acad- 
 emy of Science of St. Louis.— Annals of the New 'i'ork Lyceum of Natural 
 History. — Brown's Catalogue of Shells.— Note on the affinities of Bellero- 
 phontidae, by P. B. Meek." 

3. Foreign.— T-a,te's Land and Fresh-water Mollusks of Great Britain.— Con- 

chologia Icouica, etc. 
 Obituary 288 

Cantraine, Poulson. 

NOTICE TO CONTRIBUTOES. 

Authors can obtain extka copies of their contributions, on the 

following terms : 

FoK Each Form of 16 pp., or Less Numbeij, 25 copies, $3.00; 50 copies, 
 $5.00; 100 copies, $9.00; 250 copies, flS.OO ; cost of any alterations in paging, 
 (fee, together with plates, if any, will be charged in addition. 

Papers axd Works for Review, should be directed to the 
 '•Editor ot the x\merican Journal of Conchologj, 625 Market St., 
 Philadelphia,"' and sent to either of the Agents for the Magazine, 
 or bv mail. 

TERMS FOR ADVERTISING. 

ONE INSERTION. TWO INSERTIONS. 

Full Page $5 (•(• $8 00 

Half Page 3 50 5 50 

Quarter Page 2 50 4 00 

Eighth Page 1 75 2 75 

ONE YEAR. 

$15 GO 

10 00 

7 50 

5 25 

Published Quarterly, at $3 per No., or $10 per Annum. (P^ 

AMERICAN 

JOTJRN"AL 

OF 

COIN CHOLOG^Y. 

OctOlDOr 1, 18S6. 

EDITED BY 

G^EOIl^OE AV. Tl^^i^OlV, Jr. 

Member of the Academy of Natural Soienoes of Philadelphia; Corresponding Member of the Boston 

Society of Natural History, the New York Lyceum of Natural History, 

the California Academy of Natural Sciences, &c. 

PHILADELPHIA : 

George W. Tryon, Jr., 625 Market Street. 

new york: boston: 

Baili.iere Brothers, No. .020 Broadway. Little, Brown & Co. 

LONDON : 

Trubner & Co , No. 00 Paternoster Row. 

PARIS: MADRID: 

J. B. Bailliere et FiLS, Rue llautefeuille. C. Baillt-Bailliere, Calle del Principe. 

BERLIN: 

AsHER & Co., No. 20 Unter d. Linden. 

Ybikil 4 Bbo., Printers, SS N. SixOi St. 

W^Mm WCTii §:H]iLL§ wmiMVt. 

CoxcnoLOGisTSor Dealers having FEESH WATER SHELLS 
 from any part of the world, for sale or exchange, will please for- 
 ward Catalogues of species and prices, to 

CHARLES M. WHEATLEY, 

Jan. 1865, (ly; Phcenixville, Pennsylvania. 

625 IVI^RKET STREET, 

PHILADEPHIA, U. S. 

E3CCia:.A.KrG!-ES. 

publii 
 also n 
 jects ( 

Id 

quest 
 with 

M: 

dispc 

very 

the I 

Ic 

LV 1^ 

8L 

OF 

COMPARATIYE ZOOLOGY, 

AT HARVARD COLLEGE. CAMBRIDGE, MASS. 
 jFounTJcTi 1)» prfbate sul)scri|)tfon, fn 1861. 

Deposited by Louis Agassiz. 

of my 

'," and 
 d sub- 

id re- 
 ocrnes 

[ will 
 3m at 
 •e and 
 cates. 

NAMING SPECIMEN'S.— I offer to name coUectiona of Shells, for the privilege of retaining, (in 
 exchange,) Shells that prove to be new to my Cabinet. 

CONCHOLUGICAL WORKS FOR SALE.— See list on second and third pages of cover of Ameri- 
 can Journal of Concholog; for October, S65. 

DIRECTIONS FOR SHIPPING.— Gentlemen residing in Europe are requested to direct to me as 
 above, with the addition: — 

" In care of the Smithsonian Institution, 
 Washington, D. C.," 
 and forward their packages to either of the following booksellers : — G, Bossange & Co., Paris. Dr, 
 Felix Flugel, Leipzig, Saxony. Wm. Wesley, 2 Qneen's Head Passage, Paternoster Row, London. 

American correspondents can forward heavy packages by express or rail. Light jiackages can be 
 forwarded by mail. 

AMERICAN JOURNAL OF CONCHOLOGY. 

VOL. I.-1865. 

Containing 400 pages, illustrated by 31 colored and plain plates; with papers by Connid, Autlioiiy, 
 Bland, Wheatley, Binney, Newcomb, Haldeman, Stimpson, etc. Price in numbers, $12. Or each 
 number separately, $3.60. A few copies, beautifully bound in red morrocco, gilt, bevelled sides, red 
 edges, at $15. 

Notice.— To those who subscribe to A'ol. II., the First Volume will be furnished at $10, or bound as 
 above, at $12. 


Fr()nii»Plu)loLM;i[)h tnillit'.\iiiori(^Hii.Toui-iutl()l'roiiclu)l()^vl8G(") 

r.&UoJithTlinla 

AM E R I C A ST 

JOHMAL OF C0SCH0L06Y. 

YoL. II. OCTOBER 1, 1866. No. 4. 

DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OP LAND SHELLS, 
 INHABITING POLYNESIA. 

BY WILLIAM HAEPER PEASE. 

1. Helix Oualanensis, Pease. — t. 20, fig. 1. 

Description. — T. parva, discoidea, tenui, lucida, supra plana, 
 ad peripheriam rotundata; spira depressa, planameffor mantes; 
 anfr. 3-4, celeriter accrescentes, radiatum striis tenuis incre- 
 mentis subrugosis, concentrice sub lente striatis; ultimus basi 
 rotundatus, late umbilicatus. Cinereo-iutescens, lineis aut 
 strigis castaneis, angulatis et flexuosis, obliquis, ornata. 

Dimensions. — Diam. 5, alt. 2 mill. 

Shell small, discoidal, tbin, sbining, plane above, periphery 
 rounded ; spire depressed, forming a plane, slightly concave 
 at apex ; whorls 3-4, somewhat roughened by radiating stria3 
 of growth, concentrically obsoletely striated, the last whorl 
 rounded at base, widely umbilicate. Color light greyish^yellow, 
 ornamented with brownish-red zigzag lines or stripes, oblique- 
 ly, sometimes radiately disposed. 

290 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

2. Helix Vexosus, Pease.— t. 20, fig. 2. 

Description. — T. orbicularis, glabra, imperforata, tenuis, 
 spira subconica, obtusa; anfr. 5, convexiusculi, gradati, ulti- 
 mus ad peripberiam carinatus, basi convexus; apertura ovato- 
 lunaris. Pallide cinereo-lutescens, lineis tenuis, nigricantibus, 
 radiatim et concentrice ornata. 

Dimensions. — Diam. 8, alt. 5 mill. 

Shell orbicular, imperforate, thin, shining; spire somewhat 
 conically elevated, obtuse; whorls 5, planely convex, the last 
 carinate at periphery, base convex; aperture ovately lunate. 
 Color greyish-yellow, base darker, ornamented with fine con- 
 centric blackish lines, and with faint radiating stripes and 
 lines of the same color. 

3. Helix frivola, Pease. — t. 20, fig. 3. 

Description. — T. parva, subgloboso-conica, tenuis, lasvis, 
 glabra, imperforata; anfr. 4, obsolete carinata, sutura impressa, 
 vix marginata; apertura obliqua, lunato-ovalis. Pallide 
 straminea. 

Dimensions. — Diam. 5J, alt. 3| mill. 

Shell small, somewhat globosely conic, thin, smooth, shining, 
 imperforate ; whorls 4, obsoletely roundly carinate at periph- 
 ery, suture impressed, finely marginate ; aperture oblique, In- 
 nately oval. Color pale straw. 

4. Helix distans, Pease. 

Descrip)iion.. — T. tenuis, planorboidea, depressa, pallide cas- 
 tanea, oblique costato-striata, supra planulata, spira parum 
 elevata ; anfr. 4-5, convexis, ultimo magno, rotundo, basi sub- 
 angulato, sutura impressa ; apertura magna, vix obliqua, sub- 
 circularis, ad parietale castellis intro volvente instructa ; um- 
 bilico J diametri subaequante. 

Dimensions. — Diam. 7, alt. 2J mill. 

Shell light, thin, planorboid, depressed, light chestnut, oblique- 
 ly ribbed- striate, plane above, or spire very slightly elevated; 
 whorls 4-5, convex, the last large, rounded, on its base slightly 
 obtusely angulated, suture impressed ; aperture large, nearly 
 circular, and somcAvhat oblique, a number of rib-striae, re- 
 volving within on its base ; umbilicus open, wide, comprising 
 about one-third of the diameter of the shell. 

Habitat. — Sandwich Islands. 

Belongs to the Hyatrix group of species, and is the most 
 distant from the type, of any heretofore described. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 291 

5. Helix decussatula, Pease. 

Descnptum. — T. discoidea, depressa, umbilicata, fusco-casta- 
 nea et fulvo-maculose strigata, obliqu4 confertim et arcuatini 
 costata, costellis volventibus decussata ; anfr. 4-5, convexo- 
 rotundatis, setigeris ornatis ; sutura impressa, spira parurn 
 elevata ; ad peripheriam rotundatim obsolete angulato ; um- 
 bilico J diametri subrequante ; apertura elliptica, vix obliqua, 
 lamella unica intro volvente instructa. 

Dimensions. — Diam. 4|, alt. 2| mill. 

Sbell discoidal, depressed, umbilicate, obliquely ribbed, ribs 
 close, small, and somewhat curved or flexuous, decussated by 
 concentric rib-striae, which are more numerous and conspicu- 
 ous on the base ; whorls 4-5, convexly rounded, and sparsely 
 ornamented with short hairs; suture impressed, spire but 
 slightly elevated ; periphery rounded or obtusely angulated; 
 umbilicus about one-third the diameter of the shell, rounded 
 on its edge ; aperture somewhat oblique, and roundly ellipti- 
 cal, furnished with a single prominent lamella on the penulti- 
 mate whorl ; the radiating ribs of the exterior extend within 
 the aperture. Mottled and striped irregularly with chestnut- 
 brown and pale yellow. 

Habitat. — Sandwich Islands. 

6. Helix rugata. Pease. 

Description. — T. lenticulari, umbilicata, obliqu^ et irregu- 
 lariter rugosula striata, et striis spiralibus decussata ; anfr. 5, 
 tumidiusculis, ad peripheriam acute carinato, spira parum ele-- 
 vata, apice obtuso, basi convexiusculo, ad umbilicum rotu^nde 
 angulato ; umbilico ^ diametri subasquante ; apertura sub- 
 rhomboidea, lamellis duabus conspicuis parietalibus,, unica 
 parva in supero, dentibus lamellasformis tribus in labium. 
 Fusco et pallid^ fulvo tessellata. 

Dimensions. — Diam. 5, alt. 2 mill. 

Shell lenticular, umbilicate, irregularly ribbed obliquely; 
 ribs small, wrinkled or flexuous, and decussated by concen- 
 tric striae ; base decussated by revolving and radiating rib- 
 striae ; whorls 4-5, slightly swollen, sharply carinate at pe- 
 riphery ; spire but slightly elevated ; apex obtuse ; base some- 
 what obversely conical, plano-convex; umbilicus about one- 
 third the diameter of the shell, roundly angulate on its edge; 
 aperture subrhomboidal, furnished with two prominent lamel- 
 lae on the penultimate whorl, a small one on the upper side, 
 and three lamelliform teeth on the labrum and pillar. 

Habitat. — Sandwich Islands. 

292 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

7. Helix laminata, Pease. 

Description. — T. lenticularis, depressa, late et profunde um- 
 bilicata, oblique rugosula costata et sublente striis spiralibus 
 obsolete decussata; apice obtuso; anfr. 6-7, convexiusculis, 
 peripheria acute carinata ; basi convexiusculis, costellis vol- 
 ventibus et striis radiatis decussata ; apertura trapezoidalis, 
 laminae 2 in pariete, 1 in columellas, 4 in basali, 1 in supero. 
 Cornea, fusco maculoso strigata. 

Dimensions. — Diam. 7, alt. 2| mill. 

Shell lenticular, depressed, the upper surface obliquely 
 ribbed, ribs small, irregular, rather close and sometimes 
 curved or wrinkled, and obsoletely decussated by very fine 
 revolving striae ; umbilicus deep, one-third of the diameter 
 of the shell, and angulate at its edge ; whorls 6-7, upper ones 
 faintly inarginate; spire slightly convex, and apex obtuse; 
 aperture trapezoidal, furnished with eight prominent laminae, of 
 which two are on the wall of the aperture, one on the colu- 
 mella side, one on the upper, and four on the outer side. Yel- 
 ■lowish-brown color, spotted and striped with reddish-brown. 

Habitat. — Sandwich Islands. 
 •8. Helix capillata, Pease. 

Description. — T. Isevis, tenuissima, planorboidea, late et pro- 
 fundi umbilicata, radiatum costata, interstiis subtilissime, et 
 subflexuose striatus, striis volventibus, remotis, ornata; epi- 
 dermide membranaceus induta; clathris setigeris insignis ; 
 anfr. 5, obtuso-carinatis, spira concava, sutura valde impressa; 
 ad peripheriam rotundata; apertura subcircularis, rubrocasta- 
 ;nea et straminea tessellata. 

Dimensions. — Diam. 5, alt. 2 mill. 

Shell very light, thin, planorboid, concave above, radiately 
 ribbed, .ribs numerous, rather small, their interstices very finely 
 and somewhat flexuosely striated, also ornamented with re- 
 mote revolving strias, which are most conspicuous on the pe- 
 riphery and base ; shell covered with a membranaceous epi- 
 dermis, bearing radiating lines of stif!" hairs; whorls 5, obtusely 
 carinated, suture deeply impressed, periphery broadly rounded, 
 base obtusely carinate ; umbilicus open and deep, comprising 
 nearly one-half the diameter of the shell ; aperture subcircular. 
 Alternately and radiately banded with reddish-brown and light 
 straw-color. 

Habitat. — Sandwich Islands. 

OP coNcnoLOOY. 293 

9. Carelta olivacea, Pease. 

Description. — T. eloiigato-turrita ; anfr. 8-9, plano-convexis, 
 laBvis vel transversim obsolete liratis, anfr. ultimo, basi obtuse 
 angulato; apertura parva, ovata; columella valde arcuata, ad 
 basim oblique truncata ; epidermide tenui viridescens olivacea 
 induta ; apertura fauce cocrulescente, labro nigricans, colum- 
 ella ad basim nigricante fusca. Interdum fascia albescens 
 infra sutura circumdata. 

Dimensions. — Long. 69, diam. 19 mill. 

Shell elongately turrited; whorls 8-9, flatly convex, smooth 
 or obscurely ribbed transversely, the last roundly angulate at 
 its base; aperture small, ovate, about one-fifth the length of 
 the shell ; columella strongly arched and obliquely truncate 
 at base ; covered with a greenish-olive epidermis, which often, 
 after the death of the animal, darkens; the suture is sometimes 
 margined with a white or light colored band, which is free of 
 epidermis ; aperture bluish, edge black, base of columella dark 
 chestnut. 

Habitat. — Sandwich Islands. 

Note hy the Editor. — I have received from Mr. Pease the fol- 
 lowing corrections to his paper on "Partulse," published in 
 the last number of the Journal : — 

Partula fasciata, Pease,^ P. Ganymedes, Pfr. : — " I was 
 misled by an error in locality." In most cases, it will be no- 
 ticed Mr. Pease does not acquiesce (nor do I) in the determi- 
 nations, respecting the identity of his I'artulre with species al- 
 ready described by other authors, as determined by Mr. 
 Cuming, and published in our first volume, p. 369, (from Proc. 
 Zool. Soc.) 

Partula lugubris, Pease. — Already published in Proc. 
 Zool. Society, London. 

294 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

A WELL-ABUSED MOLLUSK. 

BY H. CROSSE. 
 Translated from the "Journal de Conchyliologie " for April, 1866, 

BY FRANK DAULTE, CINCINNATI, OHIO. 

The Poulp has ever been unfortunate in his relations with 
 the human race. Fishermen hate him on account of the con- 
 siderable quantity of small fishes, Crustacea and mollusca de- 
 stroyed by him, to their detriment. Instead of seeing in him 
 a colleague, — a fisherman by trade like themselves, using but 
 loyal means of competition, perfectly justifiable in such an 
 era of commercial liberty as ours is, — they consider him ra- 
 ther as a pirate, unworthy of mercy, who must be checked: 
 and they lose no opportunity of capturing and destroying him. 
 Moreover, during the bathing-season, they take a mischievous 
 pleasure in relating to inquisitive Parisians (and for them 
 every bather is a Parisian, whether he comes from Carcassonne 
 or Beunos Ayres) the most dreadful stories about this mol- 
 lusk. If to this be added, that from Pliny to Denys de Mont- 
 fort, the most boasting of modern naturalists, scores of au- 
 thors have taken pleasure in reproducing, with exaggeration, 
 the absurd tales concerning the Poulp in old popular tradi- 
 tion, no wonder that so many persons fear almost as much as 
 they do the shark, this cephalopod, whose odd organization, 
 and his long arms furnished with sucking apparatus, renders 
 him so odious to persons unacquainted with Natural History. 
 Thus Denys de Montfort, in one of his works, after having 
 related the story, as terrific as unlikely, of a gigantic Poulp, 
 which folds its arms round a large ship, and threatens to carry 
 her down in the abyss of the deep, adds, in corroboration of 
 his tale, a plate representing this sad event, and more worthy 
 of being displayed on a quack's sign at a market show, than 
 in the writings of a trustworthy naturalist. He then relates, 
 in good earnest, the battles which he himself fought with 
 Poulps in the neighborhood of Havre, and which he won only 
 through his tried valor and the invaluable help of a huge bull- 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 295 

clog, his companion in liis daring expedition. God knows, 
 however, if the Poulps of our coasts deserve such a bad 
 name, and if their capture is attended with the least dano-er. 
 We here appeal to the recollections of all naturalists who 
 ever attempted this kind of fishing, and if we be allowed to 
 mention our own personal experience, we can certify, that, at 
 several points of the coast of the Mediterranean, as well as of 
 the ocean, we have caught Poulps, and seen them caught, and 
 that, in no case, the help of the police has ever been needed* 
 Nothing was wanting to these unfortunate creatures to lose 
 their good name entirely, but to be patronized by modern 
 literateurs. This has just been their fote. M. Victor Huo-o 
 does the Poulp the honor to devote to him a whole long chap- 
 ter, in his new novel entitled " The Toilers of the Sea," and it 
 is not precisely to eulogize him. Had he been satisfied to vilify 
 him as to his morals by representing him to be of a treacher- 
 ous and hypocritical nature, and in pretending that this inver- 
 tebrate is "jelly seasoned with hatred!" we should have sighed 
 in silence on the fate of an ill-used mollusk, accompanied with 
 antithesis and pathos; but as to-boot, he endows him physi- 
 cally with an impossible, monstrous and unheard-of organiza- 
 tion, which has never existed in like animals, we cannot help 
 protesting, as a conchologist, against the lamentable encroach- 
 ment on science by literateurs who are perfectly unacquainted 
 with it, and who, therefore, speak about it like a blind man 
 would of colors. 

We do not exaggerate, we trust our readers will believe 
 us; however, they can judge for themselves. The author be- 
 gins by criticising Lamarck, highly exalting Montfort, w!iich 
 may easily be understood, the one being, indeed, much less 
 romantic than the other. He then compares the Poulp — which 
 he calls "Pieuvre," the vulgar name given to him by the fish- 
 ermen of the islands of the Strait of Dover — with 17 animals 
 which bear no resemblance whatever to him, thus aflfordino- 
 the luxury of 17 of the strangest antithesis, of which we shall 
 only transcribe a few, for the special benefit of savants. '^The 
 Bithus has pinchers, the Pieuvre has no pinchers; the Alouat 
 has a twisting tail, the Pieuvre has no tail ; the Lion has 
 claws, the Pieuvre has no claws; the Eagle has a beak, the 
 Pieuvre has no beak." 

But yes, M. Victor Hugo, the Pieuvre has a beak, and a 
 strong one, too, horny, sharp, moved by powerful muscles, 
 and very similar to a reverted parrot's beak. In taking it 
 away from this poor creature, you deprive him of his mejins 
 of subsistence. How otherwise do you suppose he could 

* The only really gigantic cepbalopods, whose existence has been proved, 
 do not belong to the genus Poulp, but are Decapods. 

296 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

break open the calcareous covering of the Crustacea and mol- 
 lusca on which he feeds? Not, assuredly, with his sucking 
 apparatus. You will probably have the kindness to lend him 
 a nut-cracker! 

Further, we find the following delightful remarks, relating 
 to the functions of nutrition of that animal: "The Pieuvre 
 has but one opening m the centre of his radia?. Is this only 
 hiatus the anus? Is it the mouth? It is both. The same 
 opening performs both functions. It is entrance and outlet." 
 Further still we read: "Another second, and his mouth-anus 
 was being applied to Gilliatt's chest. Gilliatt bleeding on the 
 side, and having both arms entanofled, was a dead man." . . . 
 What are you about, M. Victor Hugo? You give here the 
 Poulp an organization as dirty as it is incorrect. All natu- 
 ralists know very well that cephalopods have an anal orifice 
 quite distinct from the buccal one, and which opens into the 
 locomotive tube. It would have been easy for you to ascer- 
 tain the fact, if, instead of consulting the ridiculous fables of 
 Montfort, you had read some good work of one of the nume- 
 rous naturalists who have written scientifically on the cepha- 
 lopods, such as Cuvier, D'Orbigny, Verany or Owen, for ex- 
 ample. We must again, then, protest as energetically as at 
 first, in the name of all those who understand aught about 
 Natural Sciences. We would have a great many more such 
 assertions to correct in this strange chapter, but it would lead 
 us too far. Still the beotians of literature will not foil to 
 praise it beyond measure, as well as the finest parts of the 
 work. It is then, we believe, the duty of those who have, al- 
 though unassumingly, yet conscientiously, devoted their lives 
 to the study of science, to point out and rectify such gross er- 
 rors, much more dangerous when they emanate from so emi- 
 nent a writer as M. Victor Hugo, than if they came from an 
 obscure author. We must add, that, although this unlucky 
 chapter is full of every kind of enormities, and of facts com- 
 pletely false as to science, the paper of Paris which has the 
 largest circulation, although not exactly the most intelligent, 
 has seized with eagerness this opportunity (with that scent 
 which characterizes it) to chose it precisely as a specimen of 
 the work, and to transcribe it at full length, with the Avarmest 
 eulogies. 

We see thereby that popular instruction is in good hands, 
 and in a fair track as regarding Natural Sciences. M. Michelet, 
 also a confused literateur in regard to science, had already drawn 
 quite an amusing fanciful portrait of the Poulp; but, after 
 that sketched by M. Victor Hugo, nothing more can be added. 
 It is easy enough to make it more accurate; but to frame it 
 more fantastically, would be almost an impossibility. 

OF CONCIIOLOGY. 29T 

DESCRIPTION OP A NEW SPECIES OF COLUMNA. 

BY GEOKGE W. TRYOX, JPw. 

CoLUMXA Leai, Tryon. — Plate 20, fig. 1. 

Descrijjtioii. — Shell elongate-fusiform, sinistral, smooth, some- 
 what thick ; whorls 6, obliquely revolving, increasing grad- 
 ually and somewhat convex, but broadl}^ flattened on the pe- 
 riphery, which in the last whorl is somewhat impressed ; apex 
 obtuse ; suture crenate margined, not deep ; aperture small, 
 narrow-ovate, the labrum with a slight revolving white callus. 
 Yellowish, with oblique zig-zag longitudinal brown stripes. 

Dimensions. — Length QQ, diam. 19 mill.; length of aperture 
 23, width 9 mill. 

Habitat. — Prince's Isle, W. Coast of Africa, fDr. J. Wilson, 
 U. S. N.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of Isaac Lea. Cabinet of the Academy 
 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

Ohservations. — But three species of this genus have been 
 previously described — the typical one, G.flammea, Martyn, 
 with which this has probably been confounded, C. eximia, 
 Shuttleworth, and G. Hainesi, Pfeiff'er. 

G. eximia, an inhabitant of Madagascar, is dextral, wants 
 the longitudinal reddish-brown flames which ornament the 
 other species, and in other respects differs so much, that, 
 uniting to these points its geographical position, it may fairly 
 be questioned whether it appertains at all to the genus Calumna. 

The other species — -flammea, Hainesi., and Leai — are all sin- 
 istral, and are inhabitants of Prince's Island.* They resemble 
 one another closely in coloration and markings, but differ in 
 the following particulars: — -flammea and Leai are drawn-out 
 species, with the whorls flattened in the middle, while Hainesi 
 is a smaller shell, more conical, more convex, and with some- 
 what angulate periphery. G.fiammea is at once distinguished 

* I take great pleasure in dedicating this species to Mr. Lea, to whom I 
 owe the opportunity of describine; it. I have since found a specimen iu 
 the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, sent by a London con- 
 chologist, under the name of C. flammea. 

298 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

from either of tlie others by its granulate surface, caused by 
 the decussation of the irregular oblique growth-lines, by close, 
 deeply impressed revolving strige ; also by its flames of brown 
 being narrower, more irregular, and by its much more promi- 
 nent revolving tooth or rib on the columella. 

In Hainesi the brown flames are, perhaps, still broader than 
 in Leai, but the great differences are in size and form, which 
 I have endeavored to show in Plate 20, fig. 2, representing C. 
 Hainesi. This species, described in 1856 by Pfeifier, is now, 
 for the first time, figured. With regard to dimensions, the 
 following are the measurements : — 

Length. Diameter. 

C. Hainesi, 44 mill. 17 mill. 
 a Leai, m " 19 " 

C. Hainesii is described by Pfeiifer from Cape Palraas, but 
 I have before me several specimens, belonging to Mr. Lea's 
 cabinet, collected by Dr. J. Wilson at Prince's Isle. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 299 

DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF MELANIID^ 
 AND MELANOPID^. 

BY GEORGE W. TRY OX, JR. 

1. Melania minuta, Trjon. — t. 20, fig. 3. 

Description. — Elevated-conical, spire acute; whorls 7, very 
 convex, slowly increa«ing in size ; suture deeply impressed ; 
 aperture small, ovate, well rounded below, columella incurved. 
 Bright brown, obscurely strigate with red. 

Dimensions. — Height 8, diam. 3 mill. 

Habitat. — Tahiti, (Sr. Patricio Ma. Paz.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of Sr. Paz, of Madrid, Spain. 

Observations. — This is one of the smallest species of the 
 genus. Fortunately, many of the specimens communicated to 
 me possess opercula, thus enabling me to decide positively the 
 generic position. M. minuta has been used by Dr. Brot as a 
 substitute for M. exigua. of Morelet, supposing the latter name 
 to be pre-occupied by Mr. Conrad for a California species; but 
 as M. exigua, Conrad, does not belong to the genus Melania at 
 all, M. exigua, Morelet, will stand, and I am at liberty to use 
 the name minuta. 

2. Melania Oualanensis, Pease MSS. — t. 20, fig. 4. 

Description. — Shell elevated, conical, rather thick ; spire 
 elongate, apex truncate, suture deeply impressed ; whorls 5, 
 (remaining), covered with revolving close striaj, and crossed by 
 distinct distant plications, of which there are about twenty on 
 the last whorl, becoming more prominent just below the su- 
 ture ; aperture moderate, narrow-ovate, rounded below. Dark 
 horn-color, with narrow zig-zag red flames. 

Dimensions. — Height 28*5, diam. 12 mill. 

Habitat.— OyxaXim I., (W. H. Pease.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of Mr. Pease, of Honolulu, Sandwich 
 Islands. 

300 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Ohservations. — This species appears to be most nearly allied 
 to M. perinngnis, Hinds, of Tahiti, from which it differs prin- 
 cipally in the whorls being more convex, the plico3 more dis- 
 tant and prominent. 

3. Melania Peasei, Tryon. — t. 20, fig. 5. 

Description. — Shell elevated, spire decorticated, with 3 whorls 
 remaining, suture very slightly impressed ; whorls flattened, 
 slightly increasing, covered with faint revolving striae ; aper- 
 ture oval, well rounded below. Very dark chocolate-brown, 
 with an infra-medial yellowish band, dark red within. 

Dimensions. — Height (truncate) 23, diam. 9 mill. 

Habitat. — Fiji Isles, (Smithsonian Institution.) 

My Cabinet. Smithsonion Collection, Washington, D. C. 

Ohservations. — I have twice received this species, with printed 
 label attached, from the Smithsonian Institution, the name be- 
 ing determined by comparison with his types by the late Hugh 
 Cuming, of London. It was first sent as perpinguis, Hinds, 
 along with genuine examples of that species, from which it 
 differs greatly ; and afterwards as M. rudens, described by Mr. 
 Eeeve without locality, but inhabiting, as we have ascertained, 
 Oregon. 

4. Hemisinus Pazi, Tryon.— t. 20, fig. 6. 

Description. — Clavate, smooth, thick; spire conical, apex 
 obtuse, suture slightly impressed ; whorls 3 (remaining), flat- 
 tened above, rapidly increasing, the last subangulate, and 
 more convex below the periphery; aperture large, very slightly 
 produced at base, labrum thickened, broadly appressed. Pol- 
 ished horn-color; with irregular transverse short lines of red- 
 brown, whitish within. 

Dimensions. — Length 20, diam. 13 mill. 

Hahitat. — Quito, (Sr. Patricio Ma. Paz.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of Sr. Paz. 

Olservations. — This species is not nearly allied to any pre- 
 viously described. Together with the following and H. Bin- 
 neyi, published by me in the Journal of Conchology for 1865, 
 it appears to form a peculiar group, readily distinguished from 
 the well-known species of Brazil and the Orinocco Kiver. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 301 

5. Hemisinus '^ SIMPLEX, Tryon, — t. 20, fig. 7. 

Description.— Narrowlj conical, smooth, spire elevated, apex 
 obtuse, suture scarcely impressed; whorls 5, rapidly increasing; 
 aperture narrow-ovate, angulate at both ends, columella slight- 
 ly thickened, body-Avhorl without callus. Light olive, bor- 
 dered with yellow below the suture, and with perpendicular 
 zig-zag red stripes. 

Dimensions. — Length 17, diam. 9 mill. 

Habitat. — Quito, (Sr. Patricio Ma. Paz.) 

My Cabinet. Cabinet of Sr. Paz. 

Observations. — More slender, and differently colored and 
 marked from IT. Pazi. The aperture is also different at the 
 base. It is a very showy species, of which I have seen several 
 specimens. 

302 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF SEPTIFER. 

BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 

Septifer Trautwineaxa, Tryon. — t. 20, fig. 8. 

Description. — Shell mytiliform, obtusely angulate medially, 
 and with a carina extending from the beak to the centre of 
 the posterior basal margin ; lines of groAvth irregular, rugose ; 
 epidermis dark brown. Septum deeply sunken, with a longi- 
 tudinal lamina under its posterior side. On the anterior mar- 
 gin, near the beaks, one valve is produced into a tooth, which 
 clasps into a sinuosity in the other. 

Dimensions. — Length 37, breadth 16, height 18 mill. 

Hahitat. — River San Juan, New Granada. 

Cabinet of Isaac Lea, LL.D. 

This large species was obtained by Mr. Trautwine in the 
 River San Juan, a small stream, emptying into the Pacific in 
 latitude 4°. Mr. Lea kindly communicated it to me for de- 
 scription. 

OF CONCHOLOOY. 303 

DESCRIPTION OP A NEW SPECIES OF HELIX. 

BY GEORGE W. TRYOX, JR. 

Helix Bridgesi, Tryon.— t. 20, iigs. 9-11. 

Description. — Discoidal ; whorls 4, rather convex, striate, 
 spire not elevated, sviture deeply impressed ; umbilicus wide 
 and rather deep ; aperture oval, small ; lip not expanded. 
 Light horn-color, with revolving brown bands, a narrow 
 and then a broader one above the periphery, and three equi- 
 distant below it, the one nearest the umbilicus indistinct. 

Dimensions. — Diameter 9, height 3 mill. 

Habitat. — Nicaragua, (Bridges.) 

My Cabinet. 

Observations. — I can find no species with which this is very 
 closely allied, except ITelix Chiapensis^ which is, however, 
 differently banded, and has a norrower umbilicus. Several 
 other species of land and fluviatile shells, brought from Nica- 
 ragua by the late lamented Bridges, remain to be determined, 
 and some of them will probably prove to be new. 

304 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

ON THE TERRESTRIAL MOLLUSCA OP THE GUANO 
 ISLAND OF NAVASSA. 

BY GEORGE W. TRYON, JR. 

The minute island of Navassa, a mere speck upon tbe 
 ocean, is over a hundred miles south of the eastern extremity 
 of Cuba, nearly as far east of Jamaica, laying between it and 
 Haiti — about fifty miles west of the latter. 

So extremely local is the distribution of the Terrestrial 
 Mollusks of the West India Islands, that such complete isola- 
 tion is the surest guarantee of its species being peculiar to it."-^ 

Until very recently, no species of shells were known to in- 
 habit ISTavassa ; but the introduction into the United States of 
 its rich guano, has made us better acquainted with its natural 
 productions. 

To Mr. Eugene Gaussoin, Mining Engineer, of Baltimore, 
 who recently visited the Island to report on its guano deposit, 
 for the Navassa Company, science is indebted for the collec- 
 tion of the following recent, as well as some fossil species of 
 shells ; and to my friends, Mr. Thomas Bland and Prof F. V. 
 Hayden, I am obliged for the opportunity of describing these 
 very interesting new species. 

1. Helix Gaussoini, Tryon. — t. 20, fig. 11. 

Description. — Globosely depressed, smooth, rather thick ; 
 spire depressed-conical, apex, obtuse, suture moderately im- 
 pressed ; whorls 5|, convex, increasing slowly, not deflected 
 at the aperture ; aperture small, semilunar, labrum sharp, not 
 reflected, but much thickened at the base, and terminating in 
 the centre of the base of the shell, where it is considerably 
 impressed and dilated, covering the umbilicus. White, the 
 spire a faint flesh-color, (denuded of epidermis.) 

Dimensions. — Diam. 9, alt. 6 mill. 

Only one specimen of this species is before me ; it is some- 
 what related to the Cuban group to which H. melcmocepJialos, 
 &c., pertain. 

• See Bland's paper on the " Geographical Distribution of the Land Shells 
 which Inhabit the West Indies," published in the Annals of the New York 
 Lyceum of Natural History, Vol. VII. 

OF CONCHOLOQY. 305 

2. Chondropoma Navassense, Trjon. — t. 20, fig. 12. 

Description. — Ovately turrited, moderately thick, slightly 
 truncate, covered with numerous close, sharp revolving lines 
 decussating the almost equally prominent ridges of growth, 
 and becoming more distinct towards the base; sutures exca- 
 vated and minutely crenate-margined ; aperture suboval, the 
 outer lip expanded, but not reflected, produced angulate above, 
 and rounded angulate below, the labrum laying close on the 
 body-whorl, and almost entirely covering the umbilicus. 
 Light horn-color or nearly white (bleached ?) 

Dimensions. — Alt. 18 (truncated), diam, 12 mill. 

I have seen five specimens of this shell, of which one, from 
 Prof. F. V. Hayden, appears to be fossil. Although no oper- 
 cula were preserved, there is little doubt but that it belongs to 
 the genus Chondropoma, a genus which is present both m 
 Cuba and Haiti, but not represented in Jamaica, thus showing 
 the alliance of the fauna of Navassa with those of the two 
 former islands. 

3. Helicina circumlineata, Tryon. — t. 20, fig. 13. 

Description. — Elevated, conical, apex mucronate ; whorls 6, 
 covered with close revolving lines, the last one having about 
 twenty above the subangulate periphery, and smaller, closer 
 lines on the base below it ; lip slightly expanded and much 
 thickened. "White or somewhat flesh-colored (denuded). 

Dimensions. — Height 9, diam. 9 mill. 

Two specimens are before me, both evidently recent, al- 
 though bleached, and destitute of opercula 

306 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

MONOGRAPH OP THE TERRESTRIAL MOLLTJSCA OP 
 THE UNITED STATES. 

BY GEORGE W. TRYON", JR. 

[Continued from p. 277.] 

Family HELICID^. 

Shell depressed, or globoselj elevated, strong, striate, with 
 the epidermis colored, frequently banded, opaque, lip either 
 margined within, or expanded, or appressed and reflected. 
 Aperture sometimes toothed. 

• Animal snail-like, not so narrowly lengthened generally as 
 in Helicellidse. Buccal plate arcuate, thick, with transverse 
 rounded ribs. 

Lingual dentition. — Uncini and laterals the same in form, 
 the former 1-2 dentate or notched irregularly, the latter 1 
 dentate. 

Sid)families. 

Hygromiin^. — Shell not toothed, lip not reflected, some- 
 times expanded, more or less thickened within the margin. 

Mesodontinje. — Shell frequently toothed, lip broadly re- 
 flected and appressed. 

HYGROMIIN^. 

Genera. 
 * Umhilicate. 

1. Hygromia, Risso. Globosely depressed, not angulated, 

generally hirsute; whorls 5-7, convex; aperture round- 
 ed or widely lunate; lip acute, slightly expanded and 
 thickened within. Corneous, generally unicolored. 
 Size small. 

Inhabits east of Rocky Mountains. 

2. Aglaja, Albers. Depressed-conoidal, sometimes ob- 

scurely angulate; lip thickened within, encroaching a 
 little on the umbilicus. Yellowish-brown, almost al- 
 ways banded. Size large ; surface malleate. 

Inhabits California and Oregon. 

OP CONCHOLOQY. 30T 

3. Arionta, Leach, Globosely turbinate; lip thickened 

within, expanded, dilated at the base so as nearly to 
 cover the umbilicus. Color yellowish-brown, banded. 
 Size large. 

Inhabits California and Oregon. 

4. PoLYMiTA, Beck. Globosely turbinate; lip much thick- 

ened within ; columella diagonal^ much thicktned, and 
 frequently hearing a lamclliform or rounded tubercle; 
 umbilicus almost entirely covered. Shell large, thick, 
 flesh-color, with generally several revolving bands of 
 darker colors. 

Inhabits West Indies, Mexico, Southern California. 

** Sliell im.'perforate. 

5. Tachea, Leach. Shell imperforate, turbinate or de- 

pressed, upper whorls flattened, last one convex, de- 
 scending obliquely to the mouth, which is obliquely 
 semicircular ; peristome expanded, within labiate, ex- 
 panded and appressed into and completely covering the 
 umbilicus. Size moderate. Yellowish, more or less 
 numerously banded. 

European, introduced into the seaports and islands of the 
 Eastern States. 

6. PoMATiA, Beck. Globular, large, last whorl very large, 

ventricose, deflexed at the aperture, which is orbicular 
 ly lunate ; peristome slightly thickened within, reflexed 
 and appressed over the umbilicus. Light horn-color, 
 banded. 

European, introduced into the seaports of the Southern 
 States and West Indies. 

HYGROMIA, Risso. 

The five species here united, evidently constitute two dis- 
 tinct groups ; the two first species being of European origin, 
 while the other three belong to the Territories bordering on 
 the Gulf of Mexico : yet we can find no characters of sufficient 
 importance to justify their division into two generic groups. 

308 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

HYGROMIA, Risso. 
 1. Hygromia rufescens, Pennant. 

Plate 5, figure 1. 
 Depressed, subglobose, subaugnlate ; spire depressed coni- 
 cal ; whorls 6, somewhat convex, brownish, the last with a 
 white band on the angulate periphery ; not descending at the 
 aperture, which is ovately lunar, slightly reflected over the 
 rather large umbilicus. 

Diam. 11, altitude 6 mill. 

Montreal, Canada East, (J. F. Whiteaves.) 
 A common European species, introduced as above. 

2. Hygromia hispida, Linnreus. 

Plate 5, figure 3. 
 Rather depressed, moderately urabilicate, corneous, covered 
 with short, hispid hairs ; whorls 5-6, somewhat convex, nar- 
 row, slowly increasing ; aperture semilunar, labiate within. 

Diam. 10, altitude 5J mill. 

Canada, Nova Scotia, Massachusetts. (Introduced from 
 Europe.) 

H. porcina, Say, a species described, evidently, from imma- 
 ture specimens, is now referred co this species. 

3. Hygromia jejuna, Say. 

Plate 5, figure 3. 

Subglobose, spire prominent, suture impressed ; whorls 5, 
 the last ample, stria? scarcely visible ; mouth moderate, semi- 
 circular ; lip expanded, white, (the whorl grooved behind it,) 
 internally ribbed or margined ; umbilicus small, base of shell 
 convex. Light yellow, sparingly hirsute. 

Diam, 8, height 6 mill. 

Georgia, Florida, Alabama. 

I agree with Messrs. Binney and Bland in regarding this spe- 
 cies, described from immature specimens, by Say, as identical 
 with H. Mohiliana, Lea. Mr. Lea states that H. Mohiliana has 
 a refiected lip, which at first sight, mature specimens do appear 
 to have, caused by the external constriction, and the great thick- 
 ening within. 

OF CONCHOLOGY, 309 

4. Hygromia Berlandieriana, Moricand. 

Plate 5, figure 4. 

Globose, spire elevated, prominent, suture deeply impressed ; 
 whorls 5, well rounded, thin, translucent, scarcely striate, 
 broadly rounded at periphery, contracted around the aperture ; 
 lip much expanded, white, with a much thickened internal 
 margin ; parietal wall sometimes with a deposit of callus ; base 
 rounded, umbilicus minute. White to yellowish-green, with 
 sometimes a faint, narrow brown band above the periphery. 

Diam. 12, height 9 mill. 

Arkansas to Texas, Mexico. 

Judging from the figure of H.virginalis, Jan., published in 
 Chemnitz "Conchylien Cabinet," I do not agree with Binney in 
 considering that species a synonym of Berlandieriana, but be- 
 lieve it to = griseola. 

5. Hygromia griseola, Pfeiffer. 

Plate 5, figure 5. 

Globosely depressed, spire convexly elevated ; whorls 4-4J, 
 well rounded, slightly striate; aperture lunar, lip white, a 
 little expanded; umbilicus very narrow. Light brown, with 
 a darker band, bordered with white, above the periphery, 

Diam. 10, altitude 6 mill. 

Texas, Mexico, Guatemala. 

Smaller, more depressed, and differently colored from H. 
 Berlandieriana. 

AGLAJA, Albers. 

This group includes most of the large, brilliantly colored 
 Californian species, and is remarkably restricted, none of its 
 members inhabiting east of the Eocky Mountains. Albers 
 places most of those known to him in the genus ^r^'on^a, leaving 
 only one — A.jidelis, in Aglaja.. An examination of the West 
 Coast species of Ario7ita, in Albers, shows that he has confoun- 
 ded, in that genus, two distinct groups, of which, that contain- 
 ing the more globose species, with nearly covered umbilicus, 
 really pertains to it ; Avhile those that are turbinately depressed, 
 belong to Aglaja. Very many of these shells have never been 
 figured, and very little is known regarding them. I have sup- 

810 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

plied figures from type specimens, wherever possible, and liope 
 at a future time to be able to complete their illustration.'^ 

* Hirsute, suhangulate at the periphery. 

t Nearly black, not handed. 

1. Aglaja infumata, Gould. 

Plate 5, figure 6. 
 Large, solid, depressed- trochiform, angulate at periphery, 
 suture not much impressed ; whorls 6J, not very convex, 
 closely irregularly rugose-striate, granulate and hirsute; aper- 
 ture rhomboidal, lip very slightly thickened within, scarcely 
 expanded; base convex, umbilicus narrow. Brown, nearly 
 black ; aperture shining, chocolate within. 

Diam. 37, height 16 mill. 

From Humboldt Bay to San Pablo Bay, Cal. 

f f Light brown, with a broivn band, bordered with white on 
 each side. 

2. Aglaja Hillebrandi, Newcomb. 

Plate 5, figure 7. 
 Depressed-trochiform ; spire not much elevated, apex ob- 
 tuse, suture moderate ; whorls 6, very slightly convex, rather 
 flattened, a little descending at the aperture, finely striate, hir- 
 sute ; periphery angulated ; aperture widely lunate, lip ex- 
 panded ; reflected below, thickened within, umbilicus mode- 
 rate. Yellowish horn-color, the periphery with a red band, 
 bordered with white on either side. 

Diam. 22, height 9 mill. 

Tuolumne Co., Mariposa, California. 

* For particular information regarding the geographical distribution of 
 the Californian Helices, see a paper by Dr. Wesley Newcomb, in American 
 Journal of Conchology, i., p. 342, Oct., 1865. 

OP CONCnOLOGY. 311 

** Not hirsute, glohosely tiirhinate. 

t Nearly Hack, luWi sometimes a red hand. 

3. Aglaja fidelis, Gray. 

Plate 5, figure 8. 
 Subconical, moderately elevated ; spire depressed-trochiform ; 
 whorls 7, rounded ; suture distinct ; surface thick, ragosely 
 striate, with slight impressed revolving striae ; aperture ob- 
 liquely semilunar, lip a little reflected below, scarcely thick- 
 ened within, partially covering the umbilicus. Light brown 
 to black, with generally a narrow red band, chocolate within, 
 lip pink. 

Diam. 37, height 20 mill. 

Oregon. 

f f Reddish-ashen, not landed. 
 4. Aglaja anachoreta, W. Gr. Binney. 

Plate 5, figure 9. 

Orbicularly convex; spire elevated, conic, suture imj 
 whorls 6, granulated; aperture transversely rounded, lip thick- 
 ened, slightly expanded, the extremities approaching, partly 
 covering the umbilicus. Eeddish-ashen, lip tinged with violet. 

Diam. 26, height 14 mill. 

California. 

Is this a variety of the following species? It is very like 
 it in form, but has no band. 

f tf Yellowish-hroivn, ivith a narrow dark hand. 
 5. Aglaja arrosa, Gould. 

Plate 5, figure 10. 

Globosly conic, spire elevated, suture not much impressed ; 
 whorls 7, somewhat convex, declining a little at the aperture, ru- 
 gosely striate, malleate, with indistinct revolving lines ; aperture 
 widely semilunar; lip narrowly expanded, a little reflected 
 below; umbilicus partly covered. Brown, with a dark brown, 
 nearly black band above the periphery, visible on the spire ; 
 light chocolate within. 

Diam. 35, height 20 mill. 

San Pablo Bay to Bay of Monterey, California. 

312 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

6. Aglaja exarata, Pfeiffer. 

Plate 5, figure 11. 
 Depressed-conical ; spire short, conical, apex acute ; whorls 
 7, rugose, malleated, slightly convex, the last wide, slightly 
 descending at the aperture ; aperture oblique, widely lunar, 
 lip a little thickened, white, a little reflected below ; umbilicus 
 moderate ; brownish, with a chestnut band. 

Diam, 30, height 16 mill. 

California. 

Dr. Newcomb mentions a variety of a creamy-white color, 
 without bands. 

7. Aglaja Ayresiana, Newcomb. 

Rounded-trochiform; whorls 7, slowly increasing, convex, 
 the first ones superiorly with many rib-like striae, and nume- 
 rous spiral lines, deeply impressed ; inferiorly pale, and with 
 minute decussating striations ; suture well marked ; aperture 
 roundly ovate ; lip a little expanded; umbilicus partly closed. 
 Yellowish-white, with a broad black band. 

Diam. 22, height 15 mill. 

Nootka Sound, Northern Oregon. 

8. Aglaja Nickliniana, Lea. 

Plate 5, figure 12. 
 Conic-globose, rather thin ; spire elevated ; whorls 6, mode- 
 rately convex, the last ventricose, finely granulated, polished ; 
 aperture rounded, forming two-thirds of a circle, lip a little 
 expanded above, more so below ; base depressed at centre, the 
 umbilicus small and party covered by the lip. Light yellow- 
 ish-brown, with a brown band. 

Diam. 21, height 18 mill. 

California. 

Dr. Newcomb believes H. redemita to be a variety of this 
 species. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 313 

9. Aglaja Carpenterii, Newcomb. 
 Roundly conical ; apex obtuse; whorls 5 1, convex, strongly 
 striated, with numerous fine spiral lines; suture well im- 
 pressed ; aperture circular, margins approaching ; lip a little 
 expanded ; umbilicus open. Brownish, with an obscure dark 
 band. 

Diam. 23, height IQh mill. 

Tulare Valley, California. 
 Distinguished by its rounded aperture. 

*** Hot hirsute, malleated, ghhosely depressed, not turbinate 
 above. 

a. With a brown band. 

10. Aglaja tudicolata, Binney. 

Plate 5, figure 13. 
 Convexly orbicular; spire depressed-conic; whorls 5, a 
 little convex ; body large, expanding somewhat towards the 
 aperture, obliquely wrinkled, malleated ; aperture transverse, 
 rather circular ; lip a little expanded, reflected nearly, some- 
 times entirely, over the small umbilicus ; base convex. Light 
 yellowish-green or brown, with a broad dark band above the 
 periphery, margined with white. Band visible on the spire. 

Diam. 31, height 22 mill. 

California. 

11. Aglaja Bridgesii, Newcomb. 

Depressed-globose; spire conical, suture well impressed, 
 whorls 6, convex, plicately striate and minutely granulate; 
 aperture round-lunate ; lip expanded, reflected below, umbili- 
 cate. Translucent, grayish horn-color, with a narrow brown 
 band. 

Diam. 27, height 19 mill. 

San Pablo, California. 

Not solid, larger than ramentosa, Gould, spire more eleva- 
 ted, darker in color, and less granulated. 

314 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

12. Aglaja mormonum, Pfeiffer. 

Plate 5, figure 14. 

Globoselj depressed, thin, arcuately striate ; spire slightly 
 elevated; whorls 6, slightly convex, the last descending a little 
 at the aperture ; aperture obliquely lunar ; lip white mar- 
 gined, the extremities converging, expanded, reflected towards 
 the base ; base convex, umbilicus moderate. Light reddish- 
 brown, with a darker band above the periphery, margined 
 with white. 

Diam. 29, height 12i mill. 

California. 

13. Aglaja ramentosa, Gould. 

Plate 5, figure 15. 
 Depressed-orbicular, thin, granulated ; whorls 5|, the last 
 a little obtusely angulated ; aperture obliquely ovate-oblong ; 
 lip white, slightly expanded above, reflected below; perforate. 
 Brownish, with a peripherical band of dark brown, margined 
 with white. 

Diam. 20, height 12 1 mill. 

California. 

According to Dr. Newcomb, (Am. Journ. Conch., i., p. 344,) 
 H. reticulata, Pfeiffer, is a synonym of this species. I have 
 not seen an authentic specimen of H. reticulata, but give a 
 figure copied from a wood-cut loaned to me by Thomas Bland, 
 {Plate Q,fig. 18.) 

14. Aglaja Traskii, Newcomb. 

Plate 5, figure 16. 
 Depressed-globose, thin ; spire subplanulate ; whorls 6, 
 the last not descending^ with numerous microscopical interwo- 
 ven striae ; lip but little thickened. Pale corneous, somewhat 
 pellucid, brown banded, within tinged with purple. 

Diam. 26, height 16 mill. 

Los Angelos, Cal., Santa Barbara. 

Differs from the following in its lighter substance and color, 
 the lip not so much thickened, and the body-whorl not de- 
 scending at the aperture. 

OP CONCnOLOGY, 315 

15. Aglaja Dupetithouarsii, Deshayes. 

Plate 5, figure ] 7. 
 Orbicularly convex, moderately thick, smootli or substriate ; 
 spire obtusely conoidal ; whorls 7-8, narrow, the last inflated ; 
 aperture ovately semilunar, lip a little expanded ; umbilicus 
 moderate. Dark chocolate or light greenish when perfectly 
 fresh, with a dark narrow band above the periphery, margined 
 with white, band visible on the spire. 

Diam. 29, height 17 mill. 

Near Monterey, California. 
 Closely allied to H. mormonum, but more elevated. 

16. Aglaja rufocincta, Newcomb. 

Plate 6, figure 20. 
 Depressed-globose, with impressed suture ; whorls 6, the 
 last not descending at the aperture, minutely decussately striate; 
 aperture subrotund, lip expanded, columella not callous; um- 
 bilicate. Horny, red banded, lip white. 

Diam. 17, height 10 mill. 

San Dieso and I. Santa Catalina, Cal. 

17. Aglaja Gabbii, Newcomb. 

Plate 6, figure 19. 
 Depressed-globose ; spire convex, suture well impressed ; 
 whorls 5, convex, the last descending ; aperture suborbicular, 
 lip white, expanded, umbilicus very small, partly covered. 
 Pale corneous, with an indistinct brown band. 

Diam. 10, height 5 mill. 

San Clemente I., Cal. 

316 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

ft Not handed. 

18. Aglaja Rowellii, Newcomb. 

Depressed -gl obose ; spire but little elevated, projecting at 
 apex like a nipple, suture moderate; whorls 4|, polished, very 
 finely obliquely convex, the last large, descending at the aper- 
 ture; aperture circular, lip thin, a little expanded, margins 
 continued, adhering to the last whorl ; umbilicus open. 
 Opaque-white (bleached?) 

Diam. 15, height 10 mill. 

Arizona. 

I have not seen this species, but doubt (from the descrip- 
 tion) whether its affinities are with this group. 

ARIONTA, Leach. 

The American species are peculiar to Southern California 
 and Northern Mexico. The type of this genus, A.arhustorum, 
 (as well as several other species,) is European, but the follow- 
 ing are scarcely distinguishable from it, although so widely 
 asunder in distribution. As already stated, many of the spe- 
 cies placed in Arionta by Albers, really belong to Aglaja; H. 
 hicincta, Pfeiffer, and H. Townsendiana, are also erroneously 
 classed here by Albers. 

1. Arionta Veitchii, Newcomb. 
 Plate 5, figure 19. 
 Subglobose ; spire turbinate, elevated, suture not very dis- 
 tinct ; whorls 6, a little convex, the last very large, declining 
 towards the aperture ; rather thin, obliquely striate, and some- 
 times a little spirally corrugated ; aperture subcircular, lip a 
 little expanded, and very sliglitly thickened, partly reflected 
 over the narrow umbilicus ; base of shell very convex. Yel- 
 lowish-white, with numerous irregular, interrupted, revolving 
 brown bands. 

Diam. 23, height 19 mill. 

Cerros Isle, Lower Cal. 

OP CONCHOLOGT. 317 

2. Arionta Calif orniensis, Lea. 

Plate 5. figure 20. 

Subglobular, thin, transparent, sligMj granulated and 
 striate, shining; spire elevated; whorls 5, convex, the last 
 very broad; aperture rather small, subcircular, lip slightly 
 everted, thickened within, at the base more reflected, nearly 
 covering the small umbilicus. Pale yellowish horn-color, mi- 
 nutely flecked with pale spots, with a narrow brown, pale mar- 
 gined band above the periphery. 

Diam. 18, height 15 mill. 

California. 

3. Arionta Kelletti, Forbes. 

Plate 6, figure 1. 

Depressed-globose, thin, rugose-granulated; spire subtur- 
 binate, suture moderate ; whorls 6, a little convex, the last 
 large and well rounded at base; aperture wide-lunate, lip ex- 
 panded, partly covering the narrow umbilicus. Eeddish- 
 brown, with a darker band on the spire and a lighter one on 
 the periphery of the last whorl. 

Diam. 22, height 19 mill. 

San Diecro, Cal. 

4. Arionta crebristriata, Newcomb. 

Plate 6, figure 2. 

Moderately thick, depressed-globose; spire turbinate, suture 
 well impressed ; whorls 5, a little convex, the last descending 
 towards the aperture, with dense, strong, transverse and mi- 
 nute, longitudinal strise ; aperture rounded, lip either thin, 
 acute, or thickened within, its extremities approaching, some- 
 times connected by a callus; umbilicus partly covered by the 
 lip. Dark horn-color, obsoletely banded, livid within the 
 aperture. 

Diam. 23, height 14-20 mill. 

San Clemente I., Cal. 

Variable in elevation, and in the thickening of the lip. 
 Differs from Kelletti, Forbes, in sculpture. 

318 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Mexican Species. 
 5. Arionta Remondi, Tryon. 

Plate 5, fig. 18. 
 Turbinately globose, very thin ; whorls 4, scarcely striate, 
 (punctate when viewed with a lens,) slightly convex, the last 
 large, rounded ; base convex ; umbilicus narrow, with an an- 
 gled margin ; aperture obliquely semilunar, lip expanded. 
 Light corneous, with a narrow brown band on the periphery, 
 and above the suture on the spire. 

Diam. 17, height 12 mill. 

Cinaloa, near Mazatlan. 

6. Arionta Humboldtiana, Valenciennes, 
 Plate 6, figure 17. 
 Ventricose, roughly irregularly striate and wrinkled, malle- 
 ated ; spire small, acuminate ; whorls 4, rapidly enlarging, the 
 last very large ; aperture oblique, large, lip expanded, its ex- 
 tremities connected by a thin testaceous deposit; umbilicus 
 partly covered. Grayish-white, with three rufous bands on 
 and above the periphery. 

Diam. 37, height 28 mill. 

Mexico, 

I include this species because it was figured by Dr. Binney 
 in his Terrestrial Mollusks, by error, as Pomatia aspersa. It 
 does not even belong to the same genus, although placed there 
 by Albera, ^ 

POLYMITA, Beck, 

This group includes, according to Albers, a large collection 
 of West Indian species, to which we now add several Califor- 
 nian forma. 

OF coNcnoLoaY. 319 

1. Polymita Tryonii, Newcomb. 

Plate 6, figure 3. 

Solid, depressly globose; spire subturbinatc, obtuse, suture 
 well impressed ; wliorls 6, convex, with numerous minute re- 
 volving lines; aperture rounded, lip scarcely expanded, thick- 
 ened within; columella diagonal, with one or two obsolete 
 tooth-like prominences; umbilicus narrow, covered. Ashy 
 sky-blue above, mottled by streaks of brown, yellowish-white 
 below, an indistinct brown band on the periphery. 

Diam. 25, height 19 mill. 

Santa Barbara and San Nicholas Isles, Cal. 

Var. Superior whorls with white transverse undulating 
 lines. 

2. Polymita intercisa, Wm. G. Binney. 

Plate 6, figure 4. 
 Solid, globose-depressed; spire conic; whorls 5, slightly 
 rounded, closely deeply striate, crossed by deep revolving lines ; 
 aperture obliquely lunar, lip heavy, thickened, dirty white, 
 the extremities connected by a heavy ash-colored callus; um- 
 bilicus covered by the lip, which internally at the base is fur- 
 nished with a tooth like process or elevation. Grayish-yellow, 
 with an obscure brown band. 

Diam. 22, height 15 mill. 

Oregon. 

8. Polymita areolata, Sowerby. 

Plate 6, figure 5. 

Globose-conic, thin, striate; spire depressed-conoidal; whorls 
 5, a little convex, the last slightly descending towards the 
 aperture, large, inflated ; aperture rounded lunate, lip thicken- 
 ed within, columellar margin sometimes somewhat dentate, 
 nearly covering the narrow umbilicus; base convex. Cream- 
 color, ornamented with revolving series of interrupted brown 
 lines, light brownish or reddish within. 

Diam. 26, height 18 mill. 

Oregon, California, 

320 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

4. Polymita redemita, Wm. G. Binney. 

Plate 6, figure 7. 
 Globose-conic, rather thin, wrinkled, closely and minutely 
 granulate; spire elevated, obtuse, suture impressed; whorls 
 6, convex, last quite large and rounded, depressed towards 
 the aperture; aperture rather large, very oblique, lip reddish 
 ash-color, thickened, ends approaching, entirely covering the 
 umbilicus. Brown, banded with chestnut above the middle. 

Diam. 21, height 12 mill. 

California. 

Dr.Newcomb considers this a variety of Nickliniana, but it 
 appears to me that it is distinguished by its closed umbilicus, 
 as well as by texture and color. 

5. Polymita pandorsa, Forbes. 

Plate G, figure 8. 

Depressed-globose, thin, wrinkled, minutely striate ; whorls 
 5, the last descending towards the aperture; aperture round- 
 ed, the lip thickened internally, expanded, dilated and reflected, 
 covering the umbilicus. Brown or violet above, whitish be- 
 neath, the periphery encircled by a brown band, brown within, 
 with a white band. 

Diam. 17, height 14 mill. 

Santa Barbara, and Southern California. 

This species is smaller, but very closely allied to P. Tryonii. 

6. Polymita levis, Pfeififer. 

Plate 5, figure 21. 
 Plate 6, figure 6. 

Globose, thin, obliquely striate, obsoleiely granulate ; spire 
 short ; whorls 5, a little convex, the last inflated ; aperture 
 rounded-lunar, lip thickened within, sometimes subdentate on 
 the columellar portion ; umbilicus narrow, nearly covered by 
 an expansion of the lip. White, varied by series of pellucid 
 spots, sometimes running into stripes. 

Diam. 16, height 13 mill. 

Southern California. 

OF dONCHOLOaT. 321 

Dr. Newcomb states that this species is not Californian or 
 Oregonian, but belongs to a more southern launa. I have 
 specimens, however, referable to this species, received from 
 Dr. Newcorab, from Bay of Monterey, Cal., as a variety of H. 
 areolata. It is more orbicular than that species, the columella 
 more distinctly tuberculate, and the surface more granulate. 
 The first figure is a copy of that given by Pfeiffer, while the 
 last represents a fresh and larger specimen. 

7. Polymita varians, Menke. 

Plate 6, figures 9-13. 

Globose-conic, solid, smooth, shining, delicately striate; spire 
 elevated-conic; whorls 5|, convex, the last broadly rounded; 
 aperture small, two-thirds circular, lip expanded a little, thick- 
 ened within, very nearly covering the umbilicus; base con- 
 vex. White, greenish, reddish or brown, sometimes with 
 black or white bands, one or more in number, disposed on 
 different portions of the surface, apex and columellar part of 
 the lip always rose-color. 

Diam. 17, height 15 mill. 

Florida. (From West Indies.) 

TACHEA, Leach. 
 1. Tachea hortensis, Miiller. 

Plate 6, figures 14, 15. 

Subglobose, smooth; spire conoidal; whorls 6, the last ven- 
 tricose ; aperture rounded-lunar, lip dilated, thickened within; 
 base convex, imperforate. Yellowish, sometimes with one to 
 five revolving dark brown bands. 

Diam. 19, height 16 mill. 

New England States near the sea, and Islands on the coast. 
 (From Europe.) 

322 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

POMATIA, Leacli. 
 1. Pomatia aspersa, Miiller. 

Plate 6, figure 16. 
 Subglohose, rather thin, coarsely and irregularly striate, 
 finely striate and finely wrinkled and indented ; spire obtuse ; 
 whorls 4-5, moderately convex, rapidly increasing, the last 
 very large and ventricose ; aperture large, oblique, rounded- 
 lunate, lip white, sharp, a little expanded, extremities con- 
 nected by a thin callus ; umbilicus covered ; base very con- 
 vex. Yellowish or brownish, with brown bands, crossed by 
 narrow undulating flammules of yellow. 

Diam. 31, height 25 mill. 

At various places on the Coast, New Orleans, Charleston 
 Maine, Nova Scotia. (From Europe.) 

OF CONCHOLOQY. 323 

HELICID^. 

Synonymy and Keference to 
 Plate 5 . 

HYGKOMIA. 

Flo- 1. n. RUFESCENS, Pennant. British Zoology, fig. 

34,(1776.) No. 1. 

" '>. H. HISPIDA, Linnaeus. Systema Naturce, p. 

1244, Edit. Gmel., (1790.) No. 2. 

" o. H. JEJUNA, Say. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 

ii., p. 158, (1821.) No. 3. 

ff. Mohiliana, Lea. Proc. Amer. Philosoph. 
 Soc, ii., p. 82, (1841.) 
 Binney, Terrest. Moll., ii., p. 172, t. 42, fig. 
 2, (1851.) 

•' 4. H. Berlandieriana, Moricand. Memoiresde 
 Soc. de Histoire Nat. de Gen5ve, vi., p. 537, 
 t. 1, fig. 1, (1833.) No. 4. 

Binney, Terrest. Moll, ii., p. 109, t. 49, fig. 
 1, (1851.) 

" 5. H. GRISEOLA, Pfeiffer. Symbolaj ad Hist. Hel., 

i., p. 41, (1841.) No. 5. 

W. G. Binney, Terr. Moll., iv., p. 50, t. 77, 
 fig. 20, (1859.) 
 H. alhocincta et albozonata, Binney. 1. c. i., p. 
 128, t. 2, (1851.) 

AGLAJA. 

" 0. A. iNFUMATA, Gould. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. 

Hist., v., p. 137, (1855.) No. 1. 

Binney, 1. c. iii., p. 13, (1857.) 
 W. G. Binney, 1. c, t. 79, fig. 2, (1859.) 

♦' 7. A. HiLLEBRANDi, Newcomb. Proc. California 

Acad. Nat. Sciences, p. 115, (1864.) No. 2. 

324 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Fig. 8. A. FiDELis, Gray. Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 

p. 67, (1834.) No. 3. 

W. G. Binney, 1. c, p. 14, (1859.) 
 H. Nuttalliana, Lea. Trans, Amer. Pbilos. Soc, 
 vi., p. 88, t. 23, fig. 74, (1839.) 
 Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 159, t. 18, (1851.) 

" 9. A. ANACHORETA, W. G. Binney. Proc. Acad. 
 Nat. Sciences, Philadelphia, ix., p. 185, 
 (1857.) No. 4. 

Terr. Moll, iv., p. 11, t. 76, fig. 5, (1859.) 

" 10. A. AEROSA, Gould. W. G.Binne}^ I.e., p.lo, 

t. 76, fig. 4, (1859.) No. 5. 

S. semginosa^QiOMld. (Pre-oc.) Proc. Bost. Soc. 
 Nat. Hist., v., p. 137, (1855.) 
 Binney, 1. c. iii., p. 12, (1857.) 

" 11. A. EXARATA, PfeifFer. Proc. Zool. Soc, Lon- 
 don, p. 108, (1857.) No. 6. 
 W.G. Binney, I.e., p. 13, (1859.) 

A. Ayresiana, Newcomb. Proc. Cal. Acad. 

Nat. Sciences, p. 103, (1861.) No. 7. 

" 12. A. NiCKLiNiANA, Lea. Trans. Amer. Philos. 

Soc, vi., p. 100, t. 23, fig. 84, (1839.) No. 8.' 

Binnev, 1. c, p. 119, t. 6a, not plate 6, (1851.) 
 W. G.'^ Binney, 1. c, p. 7, (1859.) 

A. Carpenterii, Newcomb. Proc. Cal. Acad. 

Nat. Sciences, p. 103, (1861.) No. 9. 

" 13. A. TUDicoLATA, Binney. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 

iv., p. 360, t. 20, (1842.) No. 10. 

Binney, Terrest. Moll., ii., p. 118, 1. 16, (1851.) 
 W. G. Binney, 1. c, p. 7, (1859.) 
 A. Bridgesii, Newcomb. Proc. Cal. Acad. 

Nat. Sciences, p. 91, (1861.) No. 11. 

" 14. A. MORMONUM, Pfeiffer. Proc. Zool. Soc, 

London, p. 109, (1857.) No. 12. 

W. G. Binney, 1. c, p. 15, t. 79, fig. 21, ( 1 859.) 

" 15. A. ramentosa, Gould. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. 

Hist., vi., p. 137, (1855.) No. 13. 

Binney, 1. c iii., p. 12, (1857.) 

" 16. A. Traskii, Newcomb. Proc. California Acad. 

Nat. Sciences, p. 91, (1861.) No. 14. 

OF OONCHOLOGY. 825 

Fi"- 17 A DuPETiTHOUARSii, Deshayes. Revue ZooL, 

p. 360, (1839.) No. 15 

Binnev, 1. c. iii., p. 13, (1857.) 
 W.G.Binney, 1. c, p. 15, t. 76, fig. 9, (1859.) 
 H. Oregonensis, Lea. Trans. Amer. Philos. 
 Soc, vi., p. 100, (1839.) 

{See also pi. Q, Jigs. 18, 19,20.) 

ARIONTA. 

" 18. A. Remondi, Tryon. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci- 
 ences, Philadelphia, p. 281, t. 2, fig. 1, 
 (1863.) No. 5. 

" 19. A. Veitchii, Newcomb, MS. No. 1, 

" 20 A Californiensis, Lea. Trans. Amer. Philos. 

Soc, vi., p. 99, t. 23, fig. 79, (1839.) No. 2. 

Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 121, t. 6, fig. 2, (1851.) 
 ff. vinda, Valenciennes, Voy. Yenus Moll., t. 
 1, fig. 2. 

{Set also pi. 6, figs. 1 ei seq.) 

POLYMITA. 

" 21. P. LEVIS, Pfeiffer. (See pi. 6, fig. 6.) 

HELICID^. 

Synonymy and Reference to 
 Plate 6. 

ARIONTA. 

{Plate 5, figg. IS et seq.) 
 1. A Kelleti, Forbes. Proc. Zool. Soc, Lon- 
 don, p. 55, t. 9, fig. 2, a. 6, (1850.) No. 3. 
 W.G.Binney, I.e., p.l7, t.76,fig.l2, (1859.) 
 2 A. crebristriata, Newcomb. Proc. Califor- 
 nia Acad. Nat. Sciences, p. 116, (1861.) No. 4. 
 {See also Jig. 17.) 

326 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

POLYMITA. 

(See Plate 5, fig. 21.) 
 Fig. 3. P. Tryonii, Newcomb. Proc. Cal. Acad. Nat. 

Sciences, p. 116, (1864.) No. 1. 

" 4. P. INTERCISA, Wm. G. Binney. Proc. Acad. 
 Nat. Sciences, Philadelphia, ix., p. 18, 
 (1857.) No. 2. 

W. G. Binnej, Terr. Moll, iv., p. 8, (1859.) 
 JT. Nickliniana, var. Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 120, t. 
 6, fig. 1, (middle,) (1851.) 

" 5. P. AFEOLATA, Sowcrby. Pfeiffer, Zeitschrift 

fiir Malak., p. 154, (1845.) No. 3. 

Binney, 1. c. iii., p. 14, (1857.) 
 W. G. Binney, 1. c, p. 19, t. 76, fig. 11, 3, 
 (1859.) 

" 6. P. LEVIS, Pfeiffer. Zeitschrift fiir Mai, p. 152, 

(1845.) No. 6. 

W. G. Binney, I c, p. 18, t. 76, fig. 10, (1859.) 

" 7. P. REDEMITA, Wm. G. Binney. Proc. Acad. 

Nat. Sciences, Philadelphia, ix., p. 183, 

(1857.) No. 4. 

Wm. G. Binney, Terr. Moll, iv., p. 9, (1859.) 

H. Nkldiniana, Lea, var. Binney, 1. c. iii., t. 

6, fig. 1, except middle figure, (1857.) 

" 8. P. PANDORA, Forbes. Proc. Zool Soc, London, 

p. 55, t. 9, fig. 3, a, h, (1850.) No. 5. 

Binney, 1. c, p. 15, (1857.) 
 W. G. Binney, I c, p. 18, t. 76, fig. 8, (1859.) 
 H. Damascemts, Gould. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. 
 Hist., vi., p. 11, (1856.) 

" 9-18. P. VARIANS, Menke. Pfeiffer, Monog. Helice- 

orum Viv., i., p. 238, (1848.) No. 7. 

W. G. Binney, I c, p. 51, t. 78, fig. 22, (1859.) 
 JT. polychroa et rhodocheila, Binney, 1. c. ii., p. 
 128, t. 46, 47, (1851.) 

TACHEA. 

" 14-15. T. HORTENSis, Miiller. Hist. Vermium, ii., 

p. 57, (1774.) No. 1. 

Binney, 1. c, p. Ill, t. 8, (1851.) 
 W. G. Binney, I c, p. 51, (1859.) 
 H. snbglobosa^ Binney. Journ. Bost. Soc. Nat. 
 Hist., i., p. 485, 1. 17, (1837.) 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 32t 

POMATIA. 

Fig.16. P. ASPERSA, Miiller. Hist. Vermium, ii., p. 

59, (177-i.) No. 1. 

Binney, Terr. Moll., ii., p. 116, (1851.) 
 W. G. Binney, 1. c, p. 51, t. 77, fig. 4, (1859.) 

ARIONTA. 

{See figs. 1, 2.) 
 "■ 17. A. HuMBOLDTiANA, Valencieiines. Pfeiffer, 

Symbols, i., p. 37, (1841.) No. 6. 

H. Buffoniana, Pfeiffer. Zeit. flir Malako- 
 zoiil, p. 152, (1845.) 
 Binney, 1. c, p. 115, t. 43, (1851.) 

AGLAJA. 

{See Plated, figs. ^-\'\.^ 
 " 18. A. RETICULATA, Pfeiffer. Malakozool, Blatter, 

p. 87, (1857.) No. 13 

W. G. Binney, 1. c, p. 12, (1859.) 

" 19. A. Gabbii, Newcomb. Proc, California Acad. 

Nat. Sciences, p. 117, (1864.) No. 17. 

" 20. A. RUFociNCTA, Newcomb. Proc. California 

Acad. Nat. Sciences, p. 117, (1864.) No. 16. 

A. RowELLii, Newcomb. Proc. California Acad. 

Nat. Sciences, p. 181, (1865.) No. 18. 

328 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

ON A SPECIES OP HELIX FROM CALIFORNIA, 
 SUPPOSED TO BE NEW- 

BY WM. H. BALL, ACTING DIRECTOR SCI. CORPS, W. U. 
 TELEGRAPH CO. RUSSIAN EXTENSION. 

Helix (Conulus) chersinella, n. sp. — Plate 21, fig. 4. 

Description. — Shell small, somewhat elevated, smooth, ex- 
 cept that the lines of growth are occasionally indented ; um- 
 bilicus minutely perforate ; aperture semilunar and slightly 
 oblique; whorls rotund, four and a half to five in number; 
 suture impressed, not deep ; lip not thickened or reflected. 
 Color yellowish, translucent. 

Dimensions. — Maj. diam. 0*14 in., min. diam. 0'13 in., alt. 
 (in type) 0-09 in. 

Locality. — "Big Trees," Calaveras Co., Cal. (Teste New- 
 comb.) 

Cabinets of Newcomb, Smithsonian Institution, and Dall. 
 Eight specimens. 

This small species has relations with Helix chersina^ Say, 
 and Helix indeatata, Say. 

It resembles the former in its small size and many whorls, 
 but differs in color and depressed spire, though sometimes al- 
 most as acute. It is related to the latter in its color and in- 
 dented lines of growth, but differs in its greater number of 
 whorls and much smaller size, and in the proportional size of 
 the last whorl. It has as many whorls as Helix arhorea, Say, 
 Whiineyi, Newc, or Breweri, Newc, of three times the size, 
 and is from a different locality than the two last mentioned. 
 The rotundity of the whorls may well be noted. 

The localities of the smaller Helices which have been found 
 west of the Rocky Mountains, are as follows: — 

H. Mazatlanica, Pfr. Mazatlan,? California. 

OP OONOHOLOGY. 329 

H. cliersina, Say. Middle States, Northern States general- 
 ly, (Auct.) Massachusetts; Illinois; Marquette, Mich- 
 igan; Stuart's Island, Norton Sound; Petropavlovsk, 
 Kamschatka, (Dall.) Lake Tahoe, Oal., (J. G, Cooper.) 
 Red River district, (R. Kennicott.) Mantchooria, (Mid- 
 dendorf.) 

jr. Whitneyi, Newc. Lake Tahoe, Cal., (Prof. Brewer.) 

H. Breweri, Newc. Lake Tahoe, Gal. ; Northern Cal., (Prof. 
 Brewer.) 

H. Duranti, Newc. Santa Barbara Island, Cal., (State Geol. 
 Survey.) 

H. Cronhhitei, Newc. [^1 striatella^ (west of Rocky Moun- 
 tains,) Bid., non Anth.] Klamath Valley, Oregon, 
 (Gabb and Cronkhite.) Haywards, Alameda Co., Cal., 
 (var.,) (Rowell.) 

JS. conspecta, Bland, Near San Francisco^ (J. G. Cooper.) 

H. electrina, Gould. Petropavlovsk, Kamschatka, (Dall.) 
 Red River, (Kennicott.) Illinois ; Marquette, Michigan ; 
 Massachusetts, (Dall.) 

H. cherainella, Dall, "Big Trees," Calaveras Co,, California, 

I am indebted to Dr. Wesley Newcomb for the privilege of 
 describing this shell, which agrees with no other in his large 
 and well-named collection. 

330 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

DESCRIPTIONS OP THREE NEW SPECIES OP LAND 
 SHELLS PROM ARIZONA. 

BY W. M. GABB. 

Helix Hornii, Gabb.— Plate 21, fig. 5. 

Description. — Shell small, openly umbilicate, depressed; cov- 
 ered with an opaque brown epidermis, which, under the glass, 
 shows minute oblique striations, and a few small, scattered 
 hairs ; whorls 4|, the first 3| forming a very low, nearly flat 
 spire, the last descending much more rapidly ; suture strongly 
 marked, especially between the last and penultimate whorl; 
 umbilicus occupying about a third of the inferior surface, in- 
 distinctly perspective ; aperture oblique, subcircular ; lip sim- 
 ple, inner margins approximating. 

Dimensions. — Height *09 in., greatest diam. "IG in., smallest 
 diam. '13 in. 

Locality. — Fort Grant, at the junction of the Arivapa and 
 San Pedro Eivers, Arizona. Collected by Dr. G. H. Horn. 

Observations. — This pretty little shell is of nearly the same 
 size as H. Gronkhitei, Newc, but can be distinguished by the 
 opaque brown color, and, in very perfect specimens, by the 
 presence of minute hairs; the whorls are proportionately a 
 little more elevated; the mouth a little more nearly circular; 
 the apex is flattened, instead of being regularly conical ; the 
 last volution descends more rapidly than the others, instead of 
 having the same angle as the preceding ones, and, finally, it 
 wants entirely the strong, cross sculpture so characteristic of 
 Dr. NewGomb's species. 

Dr. Plorn also found at the same locality a very fine speci- 
 men of H. strigosa, Gld., the largest specimen I have seen of 
 the species. 

Besides these were two or three specimens of R. minuscula. 

OP CONCirOLOGY, 331 

Pupa (Modicella) Arizoxexsis, Gabb.— Plate 21, fig. 6. 

Description. — Shell small, resembling P. marginaia. Say, [P. 
 fallax, Gld.,) but more robust, sides more parallel, and apex 
 more convex; imperforate, fusiform; sides diverging convexly 
 from the apex, afterwards becoming more nearly parallel ; 
 whorls 5|, convex ; suture deeply impressed ; lines of growth 
 barely visible with a lens; color light horn, shining, shell 
 translucent ; aperture suboval, edentate ; lip thickened, strong- 
 ly reflected, white, opaque, acute externally, not constricted 
 behind the reflexion; peristome not continuous on the body 
 whorl ; a slight emargination exists on the inner edge of the 
 peristome, near the posterior end of the outer lip. 

Dimensions. — Height -18 in., width of body whorl '09 in., 
 length of aperture -06 in. 

Locality. — With the preceding. (Dr. Horn.) 

Observations. — This shell resembles more nearly, P. margi- 
 nata, Say, than P. modica, with which it is also related, but 
 can be distinguished from both by its more truly Pupoid shape, 
 by the mouth being more distinctly angulated near the poste- 
 rior end of the outer lip, and by the peculiar emargination of 
 the internal edge of the peristome. 

Pupa hordacea, Gabb. — Plate 21, fig. 7. 

Description. — Shell very small, cylindrical ; apex obtuse ; 
 whorls 6, convex; suture well impressed, smooth, thin, horn- 
 color ; aperture small, rounded below, unarmed, lip narrowly 
 reflected and white; base umbilicate, the umbilicus bounded 
 by an angle. 

Dimensions. — -Length '11, width "04 inch. 

Locality. — With the preceding. 

332 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

ON THE ACM-EID^ OP THE VANCOUVER AND 
 CALIFORNIAN PROVINCE. 

BY PHILIP P. CARPENTER, B.A., PH.D. 

Genus ACM^^A, Esch. 

The ordinary Acmasids of the Californian and Northern 
 shores divide themselves into the following principal groups: — 

1. Patina.— 'Normal shape; often smooth, but, when well 
 developed, with very fine, sharp, distant stripe; black, or tes- 
 selated with olive-brown ; margin moderate. 

2. Pelia. — Similar shape; not striated ; with faint swelling 
 ribs, sometimes nearly obsolete ; margin narrow. 

3. Persona. — Apex pointed forwards; generally with obtuse 
 ribs, and dome-shaped; sometimes spreading, with faint rib- 
 lets. 

4. Spectrum.. — Apex somewhat anterior; not dome-shaped; 
 with very strong, close, rounded ribs. 

5. Scahra. — Shape of patina, with close, nodulous stria3. 

There are numerous intermediate forms, even between these 
 clearly -defined groups; and in each, special forms are devel- 
 oped, which have been regarded as distinct species. Until 
 the animals of these shall have been proved to present clear 
 marks of separation, they must be regarded as simply the ac- 
 cidents of growth. 

ACM^A PATINA, Esch. 

(For synonymy, vide Maz. Cat. and Br. Assoc. Reports, in locis.) 

This species having been first described from dwarfed 
 Northern specimens, it could only be recognized, along with 
 the other Sitcha limpets, by the judgments of Philippi, Mid- 
 dendorflf, and others, who had seen the shells; and by the use- 
 ful axiom, that when authors describe the species of a partic- 
 ular locality, they mean the shells known to inhabit that lo- 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 333 

cality. As tlie (figured) descriptions of Eschsclioltz were very 
 accurate for that time, it is considered that they deserve pre- 
 cedence, especially as the genus was constituted from them. 

The Nuttallian limpets, as well as Chitons, were not de- 
 scribed in Conrad's paper; whether because the author re- 
 garded them as identical with the similar forms from other 
 seas, or because their determination is somewhat difficult, is 
 not stated. However, Prof. Nuttall freely distributed his nu- 
 merous specimens through the principal American and English 
 collections, under well-chosen names for the principal forms. 
 Although these names are of no authority in literature, having 
 been first published, without descriptions, in Jay's Catalogue, 
 it would have saved much confusion if they had been adopted, 
 in preference to new ones, by American authors, as they were 
 by English. Such a mark of courtesy would have been at 
 least a graceful compliment from a pupil to a venerated 
 teacher. However, both the Nuttallian names, when descrip- 
 tions were at last published by Reeve, and those of Gould, 
 must give place to the prior designations of Eschscholtz, al- 
 though some of them may be conveniently retained for va- 
 rieties. 

The Gouldian species do not appear to have been noticed, 
 or, at any rate, were not understood by Mr. Reeve, who, in 
 his Monograph, described almost all the supposed species of 
 Nuttall, from the Cumingian collection, adding some others 
 of his own. The plates and extended descriptions of Dr. 
 Gould's shells, in the Exploring Expedition MoUusca, were 
 scarcely known in Europe till many years after their publica- 
 tion. In fact, the work was not accessible in the Smithsonian 
 Institution in 1859 ; and it was only by special favor that I 
 then obtained a proof copy of the plates, and borrowed the 
 quarto volume from a friend, in order to work- up the Ex- 
 ploring Expedition collections. At that time Dr. I. Lea had 
 not been able to find a copy in Philadelphia, nor to see Dr. 
 Gould's type specimens of Unionidde. It is very greatly to 
 be regretted that the works published by Government are not 
 at once allowed to enter the regular markets, and are not sent 
 as soon as published to the principal libraries of science. 

Most of all shells, it is necessary that limpets be studied 
 geographically. What differences may exist in the animals, 
 we do not as yet know; but, though normal specimens may 
 carry their specific marks along with them, there are every- 
 where, and especially in the different sections of the West 
 American Coast, so many unconformable specimens which 
 closely resemble distant species, that the naming of limpets in 
 a mixed assemblage can never be performed with confidence. 

334 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Having critically examined, with the greatest care and micro- 
 scopical analysis, at least 20,000 AYestern North American lira- 
 pets, my conclusions will not be regarded as hasty, though 
 they will, doubtless, often prove to be erroneous. 

A. patina, the standard Northern limpet of the AV. Coast, was 
 described by Dr. Gould as Lottia pintadina, with the accuracy* 
 and enlarged discrimination which characterize all his writings, 
 and make them to the student so refreshing a contrast to the 
 careless diagnoses of many authors. The following are the 
 principal varieties : — 

Var. a. pintadina. The analogue of the N. Atlantic A. ies 
 tudinalis, and of the Gulf A. mesoleuca. Large, flat, open 
 Apex subcentral. Color tesselated with white and ashy 
 brown olive, in various proportions. Inside, the shell is gen 
 erally of porcelainous white, with a squarely tesselated border, 
 in which sometimes the light, sometimes the dark predomi 
 nates. This variety includes A. tesselata, Nutt., and diaphana 
 Nutt., (but not A. diaphana^ Eve., which= A. mesoleiica ;) also A 
 verriculata, Eve. It is known from A. mesoleuca by the pre 
 vailing ashy and white, rather than green, tinge ; and also, as 
 well as from A. testudinalis, by the very fine, sharply raised, 
 distant striae, with interspaces very wide in proportion. The 
 "spectrum" is sometimes dark, sometimes light brown, with 
 indistinct outline, sometimes with a few light spots, or nearly 
 white. In the Southern specimens, the white sometimes 
 changes to a rich tortoise-shell. 

Var. h. strigillata: { = A. strigillata, Nutt., pars: pars= A, 
 pelta, jun.) Part of the shells thus grouped by Gould, "mar- 
 ginal rim narrower," may also be A. pelta, ^MXi. The colors 
 run into stripes, radiating and bifurcating. Under ordinary 
 circumstances, this variety is not so elevated as A. pelta ; has 
 not its feint, swelling ribs; but displays, instead, the typical, 
 sharp, distant striae; and has a wider margin: but young 
 shells, with the outside abraded, are very difficult to determine 
 or to separate from A. strigatella of Cape St. Lucas ; q. v. in 
 Ann. Nat. Hist. 

Var. c. Cumingii. (-f- A. mamillata, Nutt. non Esch. nee 
 Mus. Cuming ]iodi\Q:+ A.fenestrata, Nutt. -f J., verriculata^ Eve. 
 -\-A.cinis, Eve.;=J.. scutum, Esch., ?non D'Orb.) In this 
 group, the shell is more raised and pointed anteriorly, with a 
 broad black margin. The fine large shells are A. Cumingii, 
 Eve., from "Valparaiso, Cuming f^ but Mr. C. expressly stated 

* Unfortunately, the "deep emerald green" of the descriptions seems 
 to have been added from the Gulf species, A. mesoleuca, specimens of 
 which, along with varieties of A. patina, were sent to me by Dr. Gould, 
 as representing hxs, pintadina. 

OP coNcnoLOGY. 335 

to me that lie never took it, nor have I ever seen black limpets 
 of that size in any authentic South American collection. Small- 
 er shells of the same aspect are, however, undoubtedly South 
 American, being described by D'Orbigny under the name of A. 
 scutum, as of Eschscholtz, and occurring, in tolerable abund- 
 ance, in the United States Exploring Expedition Chilian and 
 Patagonian collections. These go through the usual Northern 
 changes of form from scutoid to patinoid ; are more or less 
 spotted; and vary in sculpture. Normally they have closer 
 striae, as in A. tesiudinalis ; but fresh specimens are often 
 nearly smooth, and in others (especially the flatter specimens) 
 the stride become further apart, and would not be recognized 
 as distinct from A. patina in a mixed collection. It will save 
 confusion to retain D'Orbigny's name, as A. scutum, D'Orb., for 
 the South Americans; and to distinguish the Northern black 
 varieties of patina as Cumingii, that being the name given to 
 the most characteristic forms. The A. cantharus, Rve., (Cape 
 of Good Hope, J^rcAer, certissime: "Guacomayo," Mus. Smithso- 
 nian,) can scarcely be distinguished from the flattened South 
 Americans. 

The A. mamillata of Nuttall is the young state of Cum- 
 ingii, somewhat conical and arched ; but the A. mamillata of 
 Eschscholtz is avar.of /S'c^^rria mitra, testibus Philippi, Midden- 
 dorfl"; while the shells now called mamillata in Mus. Cuming, 
 as of Rve., are the black var. {limatula) of A. scahra, Nutt. 
 The shells quoted by Dr. Gould under pintadina, p. 352, 
 from the Boston Cab. A. N. S., are also probably A. scahra, 
 Nutt., which is always known from A. pjatina by the rough 
 striation. 

A very pretty modification of the C'umingii type is verricu- 
 lata, Reeve, of y{\x\<i\\ fenestrata, Nutt., is the jouug. In this, 
 the color-pattern is in a minute network, as in some vars. of 
 fjersona. In A. cinis, Reeve, the same pattern is changing into 
 the streaked varieties. 

A. patina, var. d., is internally almost always dark in the 
 spectrum, with white sides. But sometimes there are concen- 
 tric zones of dark, alternating with the white, in which state it 
 is the "A. crihraria,''^ Gld., ms., a very worn specimen of which 
 was "purchased at the Sandwich Islands" by the omnivorous 
 naturalists of the United States Exploring Expedition. Some- 
 times the spectrum is well defined, nearly black; and the 
 sides are dark brown. The intermediate forms and shades 
 between the vars. Cumingii and pintadina are very common. 
 Sometimes the marginal edge grows light, with a dark belt 
 inside ; or the dark becomes more or less spotted. The out- 
 side almost always displays more or less of spots, generally 
 in very small pattern. 

336 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Occasionally, almost the whole color of A, patina fades 
 away, and the shell developes the pinkish tinge of A. rosacea; 
 of this variety, a strangely distorted specimen is in the Mus. 
 Smithsonian. Sometimes the animal appears to perish from 
 atrophy, margin within margin appearing at the edge. 

The yoang shell is much flatter than that of A, pelta ; nor- 
 mally it has the apex very anterior, and the strias appearing 
 at an early age. 

ACM^A PELTA, Esch. 

Zool. Atl., PL 5, p. 19.= P. Jimhriata, Gld.= P. leucophsea, 
 (Nutt.) Rve. 

Junior:=P. monticola, Nutt., pars -f P. strigillata, Nutt., pars. 
 Var. ?=A. cassis, Esch. loc. cit. p. 19. ''Sitcha." 

This species, when in good condition, is easily recognized 
 by its regular conical form, narrow margin, and faint, irregu- 
 lar, bulging ribs ; but it is generally decorticated, and often 
 subject to remarkable variations of growth. Normally it is 
 painted with brown-olive, passing into black, in radiating 
 streaks (more or less broken-up into patches), which are deep- 
 est, tesselating the inner margin, between the ribs. Some- 
 times the ribs are strong and crowded from the commence- 
 ment ; (in which state it may be the A. cassis, Eschscholtz, if 
 from Sitcha, as stated;) the shell then appearing, externally, 
 exactly like Patella deaurata, from Cape Horn. One of the 
 specimens sent to the Smithsonian Institution from the Cali- 
 fornia Academy actually belongs to that species, as do also 
 specimens brought to the British Museum, as from Vancouver 
 Island, by the British North Pacific Boundary Survey. No 
 doubt they really came from South America and are easily 
 distinguished from all varieties of Northern limpets by the 
 rich metallic lustre of the inner surface. But sometimes the 
 ribs are nearly obsolete in the adolescent shell, only faintly 
 developing near the adult margin. Sometimes they fade 
 away, leaving nothing but blunt striae. The shell is then 
 known from the conical variety of A. p>atina by the narrow 
 internal margin, and (if perfect) by the non-striated upper 
 portion. Very rarely the shell loses its color, as well as its 
 ribs, when it closely resembles Scurria mitra; it can be distin- 
 guished, however, by its thin texture, and by some indication 
 of color or of strise in at least some portion of the surface. 
 The smoothness of the adolescent shell, as well as the dull 
 color, in which stripes prevail, is usually a good discrimi- 
 nating guide. In its first stage, like the other species, the 
 shell resembles a minute horny Ancylus, with the apex near 
 the margin. As the shell grows, the apex gradually ap. 

OF CONCHOLOOY. 337 

proaclies the central portion. When about one-fourth of an 
 inch long, the shell is usually of an orange-yellow, with two 
 conspicuous brown rays, others also appearing; non-rayed 
 specimens are, however, common. In its early adolescence, 
 irregular decorticated shells are the A. monticola of Nutt., ms. ; 
 some specimens not being distinguishable internally from Lotlia 
 onychina, Gld. This, however, is rightly assigned to Rio Ja- 
 neiro, being identical with A. subrugosa, D'Orbigny, from 
 Brazil. 

Some of the specimens called A. strigillata, Nutt, ms., also 
 belong to this stage, being the variety in which the stripes are 
 line and uniform. Others, however, are probably varieties of 
 A. ]3atina. In the Rev. J. Rowell's collection, there is a very 
 remarkable exaggeration of this variety from Sta. Cruz, called 
 tesselata, Nutt., in Mus. Cuming, in which (after the horny 
 commencement) the shell developes three conspicuous olive- 
 brown stripes over the back, broadly bordered on each side 
 with white, the interstices with olive, scarcely dotted with 
 light. Near the margin, however, it rather suddenly devel- 
 opes the ordinary strigate pattern. The shell is smooth, and 
 must have lived on choice food in still water. The usual color 
 inside is china- white, often tinged with yellowish. The border 
 is normally with a very narrow dark rim, and dark scollops 
 between the ribs. These sometimes assume the form of faint 
 tesselations or dots, and, in rare instances, are nearly or quite 
 absent. In the middle is an irregular brown blotch, often 
 faintly developed, sometimes quite absent. Very rarely the 
 shell is deeply tinged with rich purple-brown, with broad, 
 colored margin, leaving only a narrow belt of white. There 
 is little doubt that the food alters the color of the animals, as 
 well as of the shells. 

Some specimens of the form textilis appear most naturally 
 to belong to this species, though they present, more or less, 
 the freckled painting of A. persona. The apex, moreover, is 
 rather more anterior than is usual in this species. They may 
 be hybrids. 

ACM.EA PERSONA, Esch. 

Zool Atlas, 2). 20, j^t. 5, 2^1 24,/, 1, 2, + A. radiata, Esch.= 
 A. ancylus, Esch. +4. digitalis^ Esch..- loc. cit. 

= A. Oregona, Nutt. Var^=A. scabra, Grid., jiars, [f. 456, 
 456a, excl.) non Nutt. 

Var.:=7l. umbonata, Nutt. 

Var.=J.. textilis^ Gld, 

The following are the principal forms: — 1. Normal: strong- 
 ly developed, = A. Oregona^ Auct. Shell large, arched, 
 with strong, rounded ribs and broad interspaces, coarsely 

338 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

nodulous. Principal ribs about 16, of which the anterior 
 are small, and generally abraded; but very irregular in ar- 
 rangement. Sometimes 5, sometimes 12, divide the posterior 
 half of the margin. Apex generally the full height of the 
 shell; sometimes quite over the anterior margin, in which 
 case the shell is generally elongated, and becomes the digitalis 
 of Eschscholtz ; sometimes only at one-sixth, or even one-third 
 of the length. Color, outside white, with irregular stripes of 
 brown, covered with a thin layer, spotted with olive-brown, 
 which is generally eroded. Inside white or brownish-yellow ; 
 generally with an irregular brown spot, which is very rarely 
 striped, and is sometimes entirely absent. Margin moderate, 
 irregularly spotted with dark brown or black; very rarely 
 without spots. Dr. Gould's description of his P. scahra ex- 
 actly accords with this species, as does theshell^ at fig. 456^.; 
 but great confusion has arisen from the other specimen,* fig, 
 ■456, 456a belonging to a different species=^l. spectrum, Nutt. 
 The name is retained for the shelP to ivhich tlie diagnosis applies, 
 and, therefore, may be discarded as a synonym. This fortu- 
 nate circumstance prevents the further confusion which Avould 
 have attended the discarding of Keeve's Nuttallian species 
 with the same name. In the young shell, the apex is very 
 near the margin, and the back much arched. 

2. Var. umbonata, Nutt. This is the usual Southern form, 
 distinguished by the narrowness and small size of the ribs, 
 which scarcely interrupt the margin. They are from about 
 15 to 26, with much wider interspaces. ]3eing apparently 
 still- water shells, they display the lace-pattern of dark olive 
 and white, in very fine dots, with very beautiful effect. But 
 this is often suddenly interrupted, and the typical stripes seen 
 underneath. The interior is colored as in the typical form, 
 but generally with more of black in the margin. The shape 
 is still arched, but the shell is broader, and the apex is gene- 
 rally (not always) rather further removed from the margin. 

3. Var. textilis, Gld. This is an extreme form of var. wmZ/o- 
 nata, in which the sides spread out, the apex is nearer the 
 centre, the back is not arched, and the ribs are rounded and 
 distant. It can scarcely be distinguished from the young of 
 some of the varieties of yl.j3e/i!a, except by the fretted pattern. 
 It is probable that Dr. Gould had specimens of the latter 
 under his eye, intermixed, when he wrote the diagnosis, al- 
 though the figured type accords best with A. persona, var. 

* All the remarks on Dr. Gould's species are written after very careful 
 study of the figured types in the Smithsonian Institution ; those on Nut- 
 tail's species of the types in his own collection (since presented to the 
 British Museum) ; those on Reeve's species of the types in Mus. Cuming, 
 now removed to the British Museum ; and those on D'Orbigny's species*, 
 of the types in his own collection ija the British Museum. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 339 

The A. digitalis, Esch., I regard as an extreme form of the 
 normal Ore^ona type. It differs in being much smaller, with the 
 apex very near the anterior margin, and the color having a large 
 share of light ash outside, and a yellowish cast within. It is 
 found abundantly in the Northern localities. 

The A. radiata {=ancyhis) of Esch. is probably a variety of 
 the Northern digitalis form, But Philippi asserts that the 
 types are Chilian. His authority, however, is not irresistible 
 evidence, as the South American shells of the Oregona form 
 can scarcely be distinguished from their Northern allies: v. 
 infra. 

This species is, by far, the most variable of the limpets on 
 the coast. No one seeing specimens of digitalis and textilis 
 side by side, would believe that they could have a common 
 origin ; perhaps they would not even be regarded as congen- 
 eric. If each form had kept pretty closely to its own type, 
 the intermediate specimens might have been regarded as hy- 
 brids; but the transitions appear too numerous and gradual 
 for that hypothesis. Sea the remarks on Lottia gigantea. 

AcM^A SPECTRUM, (Nutt.) Eeeve. 

=Fig. 456, 4o6a, FJxpl. Exped. Mollusca, quasi Lottia scabra^ 
 Gld.: [non diagnosis, nee, Jig. 4:66b, = A. persona^ var.) 

This shell is, in general, so easy to recognize, that it stands 
 without synonym, with the unfortunate exception of a soli- 
 tary shell having been figured by mistake, under A. scabra, 
 Gld., (non Nutt.); that species being otherwise a variety of A, 
 persona. A. spectrum is a Southern form, ranging from Lower 
 California to Monterey, but not found in the Vancouver dis- 
 trict. Normally it is solid, rather depressed, with from 20-30 
 very strong, rounded ribs, not evanescent anteriorly, the in- 
 terstices being occupied by intercalary riblets. The color is 
 white, with fine lines of brown (not striped, as in pelta and 
 persona,) between the principal ribs, which delicately dot the 
 otherwise uniform white margin. The habit of growth and 
 consequent varieties of sculpture, resemble those of the flat- 
 tened SiphonariEB, Sometimes the principal ribs are rather 
 sharp, palmating the margin. Occasionally they are small 
 and crowded, becoming faint at the margin, when the shell 
 presents the internal aspect of A. mitella; at other times as- 
 suming that of Patella jjediculus. Generally the apex is at 
 the anterior third; rarely at the anterior fourth, with very 
 elongated outline ; but sometimes it is nearly central, with a 
 rounded shell. In this species also there is occasionally found 
 a var. textilis; when the ribs become faint and distant, the 
 color-lines run into network, and the shell is of a thinner tex- 

340 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

ture. The young is extremely inequilateral, and rapidly de- 
 velopes the characteristic ribs. Inside, the shell has a white 
 callus, through which the dark irregular blotch appears. 
 This occasionally takes the form, so common in Valparaiso 
 limpets, of irregular ghostly bars, which gave the name to 
 the species. Many of the Valparaiso shells of the United 
 States Exploring Expedition were named Oregona (=2)ersona) 
 by Mr. Cuming, having exactly the same shape, and, with 
 that species, often presenting the spectral appearance. It ap- 
 pears, therefore, that neither shape, nor color, nor sculpture 
 alone suffice in all cases to separate the limpets of North and 
 South America, nor the North American species from each 
 other. I generally find the best guide to be a certain habit of 
 growth, which presents a balance among the individual char- 
 acters. I confess that I could not always separate Northern 
 and Southern individuals, either of the scutum or the Oregona 
 types, in a mixed collection, unless they were in very good 
 condition. Even Mr. Cuming had the same difficulty. The 
 general run of specimens, however, can generally be distin- 
 guished, without much risk of error. 

AcM^A SCABRA, (Nutt.,) Eeeve, (noii Gld.) 

This species is also so well marked, that it has not been re- 
 described. It is rare, and confined to the Southern fauna, 
 ranging (like spedrum) from Lower California to Monterey. 
 With the shape and size of A.patma, it is easily distinguished 
 by the crowded,, imbricated riblets, which may almost always 
 be traced near the margin, even when the surface is decortica- 
 ted. The shell is thin, and normally of an orange-tinted 
 white, generally faintly spotted outside and dotted near the 
 margin with rufous. The margin is sharp and spreading; 
 the interior china-white, or with rufous spots, and sometimes 
 a bluish tinge anteriorly. The nuclear shell is of a reddish 
 horn-color, extremely thin ; when a little older, the apex is, as 
 usual, vexy anterior, the rasp-like surface most delicately 
 sculptured, and the color finely gauzed with rufous. 

A well-marked variety seems to have an admixture of black 
 blood, probably from intermarriage with the negro race of A. 
 2)atma. With the same sculpture externally, the interior has 
 the broad black margin oi A.^mtina, (war. scutum,) and a dark 
 spot in the centre. One specimen is dark all over. Another 
 stout dwarfed shell has a prettily tesselat 3d boorder, and would 
 (in a mixed collection) be taken for A. cymhiola, (j:\di.,=^P. para- 
 sitica, D'Orb. — As I have seen no intermediate specimens be- 
 tween the two forms, this may be described as var. limaiula, 
 ^A. scabra, Nutt.." extus sculptura normal! j sen intensiore, 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 341 

lirulis quibiisdam majorilus, valde nodosis ; intus albida, ni- 
 tidit; limbo lato nigro, sea rarius tesselato ; spectro soepivis 
 fusco maculate. 

It is probably the Acmasa jJciti'na of the Mazatlan Catalogue, 
 sp. 265, but the specimens were too much worn outside to de- 
 cide with confidence. 

Hahitat. — San Pedro, Cooper, Palmer; Sta. Cruz, Rowell; 
 Monterey, Rich; Mazatlan, Reigen. 

Ordinary collections ot limpets from the coast may generally 
 be grou]ied under the above five species ; the three first only 
 being Northern. A few individuals, however, are (rarely) 
 met with, which must continue to perplex malacologists till 
 more specimens have been compared, and their animals ex- 
 amined. They belong to two distinct forms. The first is 

AcM^A A SMI, Middendorf. 

This is easily recognized by its small size, very conical 
 shape, uniform dark color, and great solidity. It is generally 
 rounder than Nacella incessa; and the latter has a horny aspect, 
 and is moderately thin. Among all the myriads of limpets 
 which I have handled, I have never seen more than about 6 
 specimens of A. Asmi. I am inclined to regard it as a stunted 
 variety of one of the other species, probably pelta though it 
 may be a cross between that species and^a^ma, var. Cumingii. 
 This view is confirmed by one of Dr. Cooper's specimens, in 
 which the adult shell is a normal pelta, while the young por- 
 tion would have made an excellent J-sm^', if detached from the 
 rest. 

AcM^A (?var.) rosacea, Carpenter. 
 Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1863, p. 650, no 248, 
 =A. pileolus, Mus. Gum. : fnon Middendorf. 

A. t. parva, conica, tenui, liBvi; t. jun. pallide rosacea, ele- 
 gantissime maculis albis et fuscis subradiatimsparsis; t. adulta 
 strigis fusco-rosaceis et albidis picta; apice elevato, parum 
 antico; intus rosacea. Long '2, lat. '16, alt. '08 poll. 

Habitat. — S. Diego, Monterey, Cooper. 

Specimens of this species are named "pileolus^ Midd.," in 
 Mus. Cuming, and are said to have been received by Mr. 
 Damon from Middendorff himself. But there surely must be 
 some mistake, as the following is the author's diagnosis, in his 

342 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Beitriige, Vol. IL, p. 38, (and plate I., fig. 4):— "T. minuta, 
 leviuscula, elliptica, elevata, fornicato-conica, vertice subantico ; 
 extns, vestita epidermide fusca, sub microscopio irregulariter 
 rugosa, centre saepe multum erosa, et inde calcarea, albida : 
 intus uitida, ex livido flavicans, margine fusco, et macnla 
 eadem central!. Long. 8, lat.6, alt.4 mill. Div.ant.55°, post. 30°. 
 In my specimen, the central and greater part of the exterior is 
 eroded and withont epidermis, so that the latter only sur- 
 rounds the shell with a brown marginal band. Though inter- 
 nally bright, the brown has externally a faint water -colored 
 shade. The shell is arched in each direction. A color va- 
 riety has the margin painted with about 20 white spots, ar- 
 ranged radiatingly inside and out. Habitat. — Sitcha." 

I hardly know how my rosacea can be affiliated to the 
 above ; and believe that Middendorflf must have had under 
 his eye, when writing, specimens oi i^elta, jun., of which there 
 are many varieties in the Northern seas. 

Dr. Cooper's young specimen from S. Diego was perfectly 
 fresh,, though completely encrusted. On removing the nulli- 
 pore, it appears quite smooth ; in other respects exactly resem- 
 bling the common Southern form of A. virginea, as seen in 
 the shell sand from the Channel Islands. The larger specimen 
 from Monterey had lain dead long enough for annelids to 
 build their houses inside; but, except in the absence of striiB, 
 which are rarely seen in dead British specimens, it exactly re- 
 sembles one of the shells sent by Mr. Bean as A. virginea 
 from Scarborough. It can hardly be supposed, however, that 
 the species are identical. It is distinguished from A. jxitina, 
 jun., a rare variety of which has a pinkish tinge, by the ab- 
 sence of strite, the very thin texture, and the regularly conical 
 growth. A more numerous series of shells of this form will 
 be awaited with interest. Some specimens, almost exactly 
 corresponding with the young shell from S. Diego, but striated, 
 were colleeted by Col. Jewett. They were marked "Panama," 
 but I strongly suspect that they were West Indian. 

Genus LOTTIA. 
 =^Lottia, Gray, auct. 2')ars : maxima pars=^Acmeea, Esch. 

Animal, pallii margine intus papillis lamellaribus, circa 
 dorsum lateraque instructo, antice interruptis: pede elongato, 
 ovali, planato; branchia minima. {Alcoch.) 

Testa Acmaea similis. 

OP OONCHOLOGY. 343 

LOTTIA GIGANTEA, Graj. 

Gray ms. in Brit. Mus., Sowerbj, Gen, f. 1 ; Reeve, Conch. 
 Syst.f. 1, (copied.) 

=J.. scutum,, nonmill. ms. (vide Mazatlan Catalogue, p. 208). • 
 non Escliscboltz, nee D'Orbigny. 

= [Tecturella'] grandis, Gray, Smithsonian Institute Chech 
 List, No. 176; British Association Report, 1861, p. 137. 

L. t. magna, crassiore, planatu, expans^i; textura srepius 
 spongiosii; nucleo minore, corneo, nigrofusco, ancyliformi, 
 vertice marnillato, subelevato; dein elongata, postice grisea, 
 undulata; t. adolescente verrucosa, radiis obscuris, antice baud 
 verrucosis; t, aduUa plus minusve lata; plus minusve radiata, 
 seu verrucosa ; apice plus minusve a margine remota; parte 
 antica seu baud projiciente, seu circiter quinta totius longitu- 
 dinis; parte postica plus minusve elevata, convexa: extus, ut 
 in "Acmgea pelta" picta, albido-grisea, fusco-olivaceo copiose 
 irregulariter strigata: intus, plerumque testa testudinaria, mar- 
 gine lato, nigro; spectro definito, fusco, seu rarius albido; cica- 
 trice muscular! fortiore, interdum purpureo seu violaceo tincta. 

Sp. normalis, A, long. 2-6, lat 2-05, alt. 7. 

" varians, B, " 2-95, " 2-35, " 8. 

Ex apice ad marg. ant. sp. A "45 ) Apicis alt. A "6. | 

" B -05 f " B -35. f 

Habitat. — California Inferior. 

Tbis sbell, by far tbe largest in tbe family, bas been long- 
 known in collections, and comes to us from various quarters 
 of tbe world. The United States Exploring Expedition spe- 
 cimens were duly labeled "Valparaiso." It is only known to 
 live, bowcver, in Middle and Lower California. The peculiar- 
 ity of tbe mantle-fringe was first pointed out to me by Dr. 
 Cooper in 1860, when preparing tbe Smithsonian Institute 
 Check Lists. To distinguish it, I proposed tbe name 'Tectu- 
 rella, in order to preserve tbe remembrance of Tectura, Milne 
 Edwards, wbicb falls as a synonym of Acnisea. I was not 
 aware that Dr. Stimpson bad previously employed it in his 
 ''Invertebrata of Grand Manan." I tlTen proposed tbe name 
 Lecania, under wbicb I may have distributed duplicates; but 
 on tbe eve of publication by Dr. Alcock (from whose notes I 
 bave copied the above diagYiosis of tbe animal) and myself, 
 I was fortunate enougb to obtain tbe loan of that very rare 
 but most excellent work "Sowerby's Genera," Avhicb was the 
 original of Mr. Reeve's well-known " Conchologia Systematica." 
 Here our very sbell appears, excellently figured, as tbe first 
 species of Gray's ^'Lottia,^^ and with his ms. name gigantea. 

344 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Of course, neither Gray nor Sowerbj were aware of the char- 
 acters of this species ; and (Acmsea not being then known in 
 the West of Europe) Loltia, as well as Tectura and Patelloidea, 
 simply meant a limpet with a single neck-plumed gill. It 
 happens, however, (according to Woodward in litt.,) that 
 Acmsea was first described in the Appendix to "Kotzebue's 
 Voyage," some years before the Zool. Atlas, and anteriorly to 
 all the Western names. All the rest of the Lottise thus be- 
 coming Acmoea, there remains this one for which the name 
 may be retained. Perhaps other species now reckoned as 
 Acmtxa or Patella may prove to be congeneric. The above 
 diagnosis of the animal only applies to this species ; the main 
 point of difference is supposed to be the interruption of the 
 fringe in front. In general characters, Dr. Alcock regards it 
 as more nearly allied to Acmsea; but in special points, in- 
 cluding the character of the teeth, to Scurria. As I believe 
 no Latin diagnosis has ever been written of the species, I 
 have endeavored to prepare one that shall embrace all the 
 specimens I have examined. 

Lottia gigantea is an excellent test for ascertaining the 
 amount of variation allowed in a limpet, inasmuch as there is 
 no other species that offers any approach to it; and the gene- 
 ral habit is so much the same in all the specimens, that no 
 one who examines a large number, would doubt their identity. 
 And yet, in about 30 specimens examined, the ratio of the an- 
 terior portion in front of the apex to the entire length (which 
 is generally a nearly constant quantity in each species) was 
 found to vary from 1 : 7 to 1 : 20. 

The adult is, in shape, something like an enormous Acmsea 
 2-)ersona, and calls to mind Helcion pectinatus (of which the 
 animal is not known) and the Southern Patellse of the type of 
 senea, Mart. The color of the interior resembles that of the 
 Cape species, P. petasus^ and its congeners. It is generally 
 very brilliant; the body-mark being spotted in clouds with 
 bright sienna, over which more or less of white porcelain is 
 deposited. The shell outside is almost always eroded, and of 
 a spongy texture. When perfect, it displays very faint, swell- 
 ing, irregular riblets, which are broad and more or less warty, 
 except on the head ; the warts are very stout in the young 
 shell. The outer margin of well-grown specimens is colored 
 like A.pelta, Sometimes the profile presents an elegant curve, 
 concave anteriorly, convex posteriorly; but often the eroded 
 apex descends almost perpendicularly to the margin. The 
 horny nucleus is very small in proportion, with the apex 
 raised as compared with the adult: in this respect the reverse 
 of the Acmsese. The point is very obtuse, and displays a 
 spongy decollation as in the adult. When less than the tenth 

OP OONCHOLOGY. 315 

of an inch long, it begins to throw off a light drab portion 
 posteriorly, the black projecting into it in broad rays; the 
 shell, at the same time, developing coarse, faint ribs. A spe- 
 cimen, about -2 inch long, which was adhering to an adult, 
 and is probably conspecific, is entirely drab, of rough, irregu- 
 lar growth, and with but few broAvn spots. A series is want- 
 ing to connect these very young shells with the adolescent 
 specimens. 

Some of the Chilian limpets, which have been bandied 
 about between Patella and Acmsea, may possibly prove to be- 
 long to Lottia as now restricted. 

Genus SCUEEIA, Gray. 

Dr. Alcock writes, that "in Scurria mitra the mantle-margin 
 is beset within with lamellar papilliB. extending completely 
 round, but less developed in front; the foot is thick and round- 
 ish oval; the gill moderate, triangular, and broad at the base. 
 In the typical Acmiese, {patina^ j)elta^ fascicularis) the mantle- 
 margin is plain within; the foot oval; the gill long and plume- 
 like. In A. discors, however, the gill is triangular, with a 
 broadish base, as in Scurria.''' It appears evident that the 
 anatomical details have not yet been examined in a sufficient 
 number of species to ascertain what characters are generically 
 important, and what of specific value only. All grouping 
 according to the shells alone, is manifestly erroneous. The 
 absence of true Patellse from the whole Northern coasts of 
 America is very remarkable. 

SCUERIA MITRA, Escholtz. 

= Acmsea m.-^A.mamillata-\-A.marmorea, Eschscholtz, Zool. 

Atlas, PL 5, pp. 18, 19, p/. 23,/. 4. 
 = f Lottia pallida, Gray, Zool. Beech. Voy. 
 = Patella conica, Gould, PJxpl. Exped. Moll, p.S4:6, {Jrom type) 

This shell, which is profusely abundant and large in the 
 Vancouver district, varies considerably in outline, but is al- 
 ways very conical, with the apex elevated and pointed, even 
 in very young specimens. As generally seen, the surface is 
 smooth, even in fresh shells, and after the nullipore has been 
 uncoated; but occasional specimens present faint indications 
 of striae, as stated by Dr. Gould. Whether this be co-ordinate 
 with any differences in the animal, has not been ascertained. 
 Fresh Southern specimens are sometimes found (as from Mon- 
 terey, Cooper) with a delicate pink tinge; but the dead shell 
 is uniformly of a pure white, not yellowish or ashy like the 
 South American Scurria scurra, Lesson. Dr. Gray (and Dr. 

346 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Gould, as appears from Expl. Exped. Moll., p. 347) considered 
 the shells of the Northern and Southern oceans conspecific; 
 but they may pretty easily be separated. I have examined 
 more than a thousand from Vancouver, but none of them 
 have the horny aspect (common in Nacellse) which is generally 
 seen in Chilian specimens. In these, the young shell is more 
 swelling, which gives a slight excurvation to the profile of 
 the adult ; while the profile line of the posterior portion in S. 
 mitra is straight or even concave. Moreover, S. scurra is 
 crowded with minute, obsolete, radiating striae, crossed by 
 lines of growth, as described by Dr. Gould ; while S. mitra, 
 if sculptured at all, has the lines few, distant, and more raised.'^ 

An ordinary conical specimen measures: — 

long. 1-4, lat. 1-35, alt. 1-4. 
 A smaller, spreading " " 1-2, " 1-08, " -8. 

Surely, those who set the fashion in ladies' dress, must have 
 borrowed the outline of the most improved crinolines from 
 the spreading form of these Little molluscs ; the conical form 
 representing the common kinds. But they should remember 
 that Scurrise, living where there is no fire and abundance of 
 water, are safe under a dome, which, inflated with air, made 
 of inflammable material, and near a fire, may consume, with 
 untold agony, the frame of the fashion-follower, who conceals 
 her form within a mere portion of it. 

As the sculpture described under P. conica, Gould, belongs 
 to S. scurra, Lesson, the rarer, sculptured form of S. mitra 
 may be described as var. tenuisculpta. 

Scurria mitra, t. striis, seu lirulis, valde distantibus, subex- 
 pressis, t. jun. intensioribus, plus minusve sculpta. 

* It is most probable that Dr. Gould had under his eye some young spe- 
 cimens of *S'. scurra, along with the young of S. mitra, when he wrote the 
 diagnosis of Patella conica in Expl. Exped. Moll. The type specimen in 
 Mas. Smithsonian is undoubtedly S. mitra, jun. The specimens of the 
 United States Exploring Expedition shells were so sadly intermixed, and 
 the labels often so manifestly erroneous, that it is not wonderful if Dr. Gould 
 (and others who believed in them) should have occasionally erred. The 
 animal of Scurria scurra, Lesson, ('embedded in the stalks of Fuci, Valpa- 
 raiso) is well described in Expl. Exped. Moll., pp.356, 857; but there is no 
 "genus Scurria, Eschschoitz," scurra being Lesson's species, and Scurria 
 Gray''s genus. Dr. Gould also speaks (p. 356) of Acmcea persona, A. ra- 
 diata, and A. ancylus, Eschschoitz, as being varieties of ^•Lotlid scutum, 
 (Eschschoitz,) D'Orbiguy," the animal of which, as described by Couthuoy 
 from Valparaiso, is fringed with fine cirri. Now, .4. i^cutum, Eschschoitz, is 
 a variety oi A. patina, (&& stated, indeed, by Dr. Gould himself at p. 352;) 
 and A- persona, with its varieties radiata and ancylus, form a very distinct 
 species ; all of them being from the Sitcha district. Nuttall's " mimticula'''' 
 (=monticola), a Californian she]\ = pelta, van, is also quoted by Dr. Gould 
 among the Valparaiso limpets, p. 354. 

OF CONCnOLOQY. 34t 

?SCURRIA (?var.) FUNICULATA. 
 Brit. Assoc. Report, 1863, p. 650, no. 250, h. 

? S. t. parva, regulariter conica, apice acuto, elevato, parum 
 antrorsun sito; albida, liris validis, rotundatis, interdum vix 
 nodulosis; irregiilariter hue et illuc dupliciter vel tripliciter 
 dispositis; margine a. costis extus undato ; cicatrice baud con- 
 spicua. Long. -24, lat. -18, alt. -12 poll., div. 80°. 

Habitat. — Monterey, Cooper. 

One very small specimen was sent by Dr. Cooper to the 
 Smithsonian Institution, so different in sculpture from the 
 most strongly marked specimens of Scurria mitra, that I pre- 
 sume it to be distinct. The ribs, which are stout for the size, 
 are sometimes single, sometimes gathered into twos and threes; 
 with wide interspaces, in which intercalary riblets appear. 

Genus LEPETA, Gray. 

=Propilidium, Forbes. 

The generic place of this species and the last are doubtful,, 
 the animal not having been yet examined. 

Lepeta c^coides. Carpenter. 

Proc. Phil Acad., April, 1865, j). 60: 

The first perfect specimen of this shell was dredged by Dr- 
 Kennerley ; a larger, broken shell, received before by Mr. R» 
 D. Darbishire from the Farrallones Islands, having been passed 
 over as Scurria mitra. A number of small, but beautifully 
 perfect specimens have lately been sent to the Smithsonian 
 Institute from Sitcha. They are thin ; white, tinged with 
 greenish at the margin, and often with pink within; and very 
 delicately sculptured. It is known at once from all the 
 Acmsew by its semitransparent texture and white color ; and 
 from the young of Scurria mitra by its broad, flat shape, ob- 
 tuse apex, and excurved posterior profile. The striulse are 
 more or less expressed, more or less distant, and rarely sligh « 
 ly granular ; they are always most developed on the back, 
 and subobsolete in front. The genus (as described by Forbes) 
 is curiously like an Emarginula without a slit. The Sitcha 
 specimens range to long. -57, lat. '48, alt. -2. In color, sculp- 
 ture, &c., it exactly resembles L. ceeca ; but that species, as 
 dredged off" Norway, by M' Andrew, and as represented in the 
 Cumingian collection, is conical, while csecoides is Ancyloid. 
 Messrs. Adams figure Propilidium ancyloide, Forbes and Hani., 
 under the name of Lepeta cseca; but the examples above quoted 

348 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

are widely different. My most reliable friend, Mr. Arthur 
 Adams, collected specimens both of cseca and csecoides in the 
 Japanese waters. The shells collected by Dr. Stimpson in the 
 North Pacific Exploring Expedition (Hakodadi and Arctic 
 Ocean) were marked Lepeta ''cseca, var. concentrica, Midd " by 
 Dr. Gould: Smiths. Cab. no. 1718. 

Montreal, C. E., June 20ih, 1866. 

OF CONCnOLOGY, 349 

REMARKS ON THE DISTRIBUTION OP THE INOPER- 
 CULATED LAND SHELLS WHICH INHABIT 
 THE CONTINENT OF AMERICA AND 
 THE WEST INDIES. 

(In continuation of Papers pp. 54 — 58 and 136 — 143.) 
 BY THOMAS BLAND. 

In previous Papers my remarks were confined chiefly to 
 the operculated land shells of the American Continent and 
 the West Indies, but I propose now briefly to discuss the sub- 
 ject of the distribution of the inoperculates. 
 ,3 I Pfeifter [Mon. Hel. Viv.) divides them (exclusive of Proser- 
 jnnacea) into 31 genera, and describes over 5000 species, — to 
 the present date the number known and described may be es- 
 timated at, but probably exceeds, 5500. Without assuming 
 absolute correctness, it may be stated, that while the Ameri- 
 can Continent has 10 per cent, and the West Indies 39 per 
 cent, of the operculates, the former has about 23 per cent, and 
 the latter about 14 per cent, of the inoperculates. 

According to Pfieiffer's classification, the following genera 
 are represented, both on the Continent and Islands, viz : Helix, 
 Streptaxis, Bulimus, Spiraxis, Orthalicus, Achatina, Oleacina, 
 Tornatellina, Pupa, Ilacroceramv.s, Cylindrella, Balea, Clausilia, 
 Vitrina, Simpulopsis and Succinea. Considering, however, the 
 great number of different forms embraced in several of those 
 genera, it is not possible, with the use of such generic terms 
 alone, to give a satisfactory view of the special relations of 
 the continental and insular faunas. 

Looking, however, at the relative extent to which each of 
 the above-mentioned genera are specifically represented in 
 different portions of the Continent, as well as in each of the 
 West Indian sub-provinces, evidence is afforded of the general 
 relationship of the faunas of the sub-provinces inter se, and 
 with the Continent. 

Taking, for instance, the number of inoperculated species in 
 the subprovinces and sections of the Continent, the following 
 are approximately the proportions (per cent.) in which Helix, 
 Bulimus and Cylindrella are represented in each : — 

350 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Thus it appears that Helix predominates in North America, 
 Bulimus in South America, and Cylindrella in the West In- 
 dies. The closer relations of the subprovinces, embracing 
 Cuba, Jamaica and Haiti with North America, and of the Porto 
 Eico and Gruadeloupe subprovinces with South America, are 
 shown by the greater numerical representation of Helix in the 
 former, and of Bulimus \n the latter. Bulimus has compara- 
 tively few species in North and Helix in South America, while 
 the specific development of those two genera are more nearly 
 balanced on the Continent, in Mexico and Central America, 
 and in the Islands, in the Porto Rico and Guadaloupe sub- 
 provinces. The distribution of CylinflreUa (and it is the same 
 with Oleacina and Sjnraxis) shows that Cuba, Jamaica and 
 Haiti are more closely allied to Mexico and Central America 
 than the Porto Rico and Guadeloupe subprovinces, in which, 
 as well as in Sjuth America, those three genera are compara- 
 tively feebly represented. 

In previous pages I referred the " origin " of genera to the 
 country in which there is the maximum specific representa- 
 tion, and presented a statement showing the genera, both oper- 
 culated and inoperculated, the origin of which might, on such 
 data, be assigned to the American Continent or the West In- 
 dian Islands. I remarked that the majority of the genera of 
 operculates common to the Continent and Islands have the 
 greater number of species on the Islands, but that the re- 
 verse is the case with the majority of such genera of inoper- 
 Gulates. 

Of the before-mentioned genera, represented both on the 
 Continent and Islands, those which appear to have a majority 
 of species in the latter are Acliatina^ Pupa, Macroceramus and 
 Cylindrella, but in no sense can the two former be said to be 
 of West Indian origin. 

The generalizations to which I have referred are at least 
 interesting, but less satsfactory as to the inoperculates than 
 the operculates, if Pfeiffer's classification be used, because, as 
 already observed, some at least of his generic terms embrace 
 very various forms, the geographical distribution of which 
 should be considered. 

Pfeift'er includes in Bulimus and Achatina many species 
 now better known as of the genus iStenogyra, and in Bulimus 

OF CONCriOLOGY. 351 

the genus Buliraulus, the latter represented in the West In- 
 dies generally, but the former only in the Guadeloupe sub- 
 province. Liguus, now with much reason separated from 
 Achatina, belongs to the West Indies, in which AcJtatina proper 
 is not represented. Tornitellina embraces Leptinaria^ a 
 few species of which inhabit tropical America and the West 
 Indies. Pupa, in its wide signification, is not AVest Indian, 
 but the subgenus Strophia may be so termed. 

It is worthy of notice, that of the genera common to the 
 Continent and Islands, the largest species of each genus, speak- 
 ing generally, is found where the genus has the greater num- 
 ber of representatives, Cylindrella being the most striking ex- 
 ception ; and I believe that this will be found to be the case 
 with a majority, at least, of the well established subgenera. 

I stated (p. 137) that species of operculates and inoperculates 
 common to the Continent and Islands are, with few excep- 
 tions, of West Indian rather than American forms, — this, 
 however, is not entirely correct as regards the inoperculated 
 species. Of such species about one-half of the whole number 
 are found in North America (including Mexico), and the Cuba 
 subprovince, — they are of West Indian and Mexican forms, 
 and about one-fourth of them are distiibuted in the other in- 
 sular subprovinces. The remainder of such species inhabit 
 the Southern Continent and chieflj' the Guadeloupe subpro- 
 vince, and are of West Indian and South American forms. 
 The species of Helix common principally to the French Islands 
 and French Guiana (with Liguns virgineus of Haiti), I am 
 disposed to consider West Indian. 

With respect to the occurrence of identical species in more 
 than one of the subprovinces, the g- eater number are in Cuba 
 and Jamaica, and Cuba and Porto Eico,- — they are, at least, 
 numerous in Haiti and Jamaica, and Haiti and the Guadeloupe 
 subpiovinces. 

The annexed Table, (illustrative and explanatory of the 
 foregoing remarks,) in which Pfeifter's classification is used, 
 gives the names of the genera represented both on the Amer- 
 ican Continent and in the West Indies, with the number (ap- 
 proximate, rather than positively correct) of species in each 
 province or subprovince : — 

352 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

In order to elucidate the facts as to the distribution of the 
 inoperculated land shells on the American Continent and in 
 the West Indies, more completely than can be done by the 
 use of Pfeiffer's classification, I prepared the subjoined Cata- 
 logue from the last edition of the "Die Heliceen" of Albers. 

The Catalogue gives, with the name of a typical species of 
 each, the names of all the genera and subgenera, from the 
 work referred to, which are known to be represented either 
 on the Continent or Islands, distinguishing as distinct fiunas 
 those of Eastern North America, the West Coast of North 
 America, Mexico, Central America, South America, and of 
 the five subprovinces into which, in my former papers, I di- 
 vided the West Indian Islands. A single asterisk (*) indicates 
 the occurrence of species (of the genus or subgenus mentioned 
 in the first column) in the province named at the head of the 
 column, — two asterisks (**) that in such province the genus or 
 subgenus has its greatest specific development. 

I do not, by any means, accept or adopt, as a whole, the 
 classification of Albers, but I use it as the most convenient 
 for my present purpose, considering that it enables me to pre- 
 sent a very interesting and approximately correct view of the 
 relations of the faunas in question. 

OP OONCHOLOGT. 353 

CATALOGUE OF THE GENERA ASD SUBGENERA (OF ISOPERCULATED LAND SHELLS) WHICH ARE 
 SPECIFICALLY REPRESENTED ON THE AllERICAN CONTINENT AND IN THE WEST INDIES. 

A. TESTACELLEA. 
 Glandina, Schuin. 
 Glandina, s. str , 

truncata, Gmel. 
 Varicella, Pfr 

leucozonias, Walch. 
 Oleacina, s. str , 

oleacea, Fer. 
 Spiraxis, C. B. Ad. 
 Streptostyla, Shutt. s. str 

Nicoleti^ Shutt. 
 Chersomitra, Pfr 

nigricans, Pfr. 
 Euspiraxis, Pfr 

costulusa, C. B. Ad. 
 Ctlindrella, Pfr. 
 Urocoptis, Beck , 

decollata, Nyst. 
 Mychostoma, Alb 

subula, Fer. 
 Gongylostoma, Alb 

elegans, Pfr. 
 Holospira , 

pilocerei, Pfr. 
 Trachelia, Pfr 

porrecta, Gould. 
 Casta, Alb 

elongata, Cliem. 


364 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

HELICEA. 

a 

i 

5. VITRINEA. 

ViTRiNA, Drap * 

Ihnpida^ Gould. 

Stekopus, Guild 

cruentus, Guild. 
 ZoNiTEs, Montf. 

Moreletia, Pfr 

euryomphalus, Pfr. 
 Hyalina, CFer.) Gray. 

Hyalina, s. str * 

indenfata, Say. 

Mesompbix, Raf. ** 

fuliginosa, Griff. 

Morchia 

concolor, Fer. 

Ammonoceras, Pfr 

euspira, Pfr. 

Edusa, Alb 

zonites, Pfr. 
 Conulus, (Fitz.) Moq. Tand.* 
 fulva, Drap. 

Gastrodonta, Alb ** 

interna, Say. 

Maorocyclis, Beck * 

laxata, Fer. 

Sagda, Beck. 

Sagda, s. str 

Cookiana, Gmel. 
 Hyalosagda, Alb 

simiiis, C. B. Ad. 
 Proserpinula, Alb 

proserpinula, Pfr. 
 Odonlosagda 

polyodon, W. & M. 

G. HELICACEA. 
 Helix, L. 

Microphysa, Alb * 

Boothiana, Pfr. 

Patula, Held.., ** 

alternata, Say. 

Stephanoda, Alb 

dissimilis, b. 

OP CONCHOLOQY. 355 

6 I 

Pelia, Alb 

.opirulata, Pfr. 
 Ophiogyra, Beck 

polygyrata, Born. 
 Poly gyra, Say ** 

auriculata, Say. 
 Stenotrema, Raf. ** 

ftpinosa, Lea. 
 Triodopsis, Raf ** 

palliaia, Say. 
 Mesodon, Raf. ** 

albolabris. Say. 
 Acanthinula, Beck * 

harpa, Say. 
 Vallonia, Risso * 

pulchella, Mull. 
 Fruticicola, Held * 

hispida, L. 
 Aglaia, Alb 

Ghiesbreghti, Nyst. 
 Eurycampta 

Bonplandi, Lam. 
 Arionta, Leach * 

Townsendiana, Lea. 
 Euparypha, Hartm 

areolata, Sowb. 
 Coryda, Alb 

alauda, Fer. 
 Pomatia, (Leach,) Beck * 

Humboldtiana, Val. 
 Thelidomus, Swain 

auricoma., Fer. 
 Cysticopsis, Morch 

tenerrima, C. B. Ad. 
 Plagioptycha, Pfr 

loxodon, Pfr. 
 Polymita, Beck * 

muscarum, Lea. 
 Liochila, Alb 

Jamaicensis, Chem. 
 Eurycratera, Beck 

Dominicensis, Pfr. 
 Polydontes, Montf. ... 

imperator, Montf. 

S5ft AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Dentellaria, Schum 

nux deiiticulata, Chem. 

Cepolis, Montf. .... 

cepa. Mull. 

Pleurodonta, Fisch 

sinuata, Mull. 

Anastonia, Lam 

ringens, L. 

Labyrinthus, Beck 

Iabyri7ifhus, Chem. 

Isomeria, Alb 

oreas, Koch. 

Caracolus, Montf. 

caracoUa, Lam. 

Solaropsis, Beck , 

pellis serpentis, Chem. 

Leptoloma , 

fuscocincta^ C. B. Ad. 

Geotrochus, Hass 

pileiformig, Moric. 
 BuLiMus, Scopoli. 

Macrodontes, Swain 

odontostomus, Sowb. 

Odontostomus, Beck 

Pantagruelinus, Desb. 

Tomigerus. Spix 

cla^isus, Spix. 

Pclecychilus, Guild .... 

dtstortus, Biug. 

Anthinus, Alb 

multicolor, Rang. 

Pachiotus, Beck , 

melanostomus, Swain. 

Strophochilus, Spix 

almeida. Spix. 

Borus, Alb 

oblongus. Mull. 

Orphnus, Alb.... 

Taunaysii, Fer. 

Dryptus. Alb , 

Moritzianus, Pfr. 

Eurytus. Alb , 

pintadinus, Orb. 

I I 

OF CONCHOLOQY. 35t 

AcHATiNA, Lam. 

Liguus, Montf. * 

virginea, L. 

D. ORTHALICEA. 

BULIMULUS. 

Otostomus 

auris leports, Brug. 
 Drymaeus, Alb 

Knorri, Pfr. 
 Liostracus, Alb 

vittatus, Spix. 
 Auctus 

anchistomus, Wagn. 
 Mesembrinus, Alb 

elongatus, Bolt. 
 Thaumastus, Alb ./ 

exilis, Gm. 
 Mormus, Alb 

papyraceus, Mawe, 
 Scutalus, Alb * 

proteus, Brod. 
 Ataxus, Alb. * 

umbilicaris. Soul. 
 Bostryx, Trosch 

solutus, Trosch. 
 Pyrgus, Alb 

turritus, Brod. 
 Peronaeus, Alb 

pupiformis, Brod. 
 Leptomerus, Alb 

limnceoides, Fer. 
 Eudioptus, Alb 

pseudo succinneus, Moric. 
 Rhinus, Alb 

heterotrichua, Moric. 
 Plectostylus, Alb 

coqnimbensis, Brod. 
 Orthalicus, Beck. 
 Orthalicus, Beck * 

zebra. Mull. 
 Corona, Alb 

regina, Fer. 
 Porphyrobaphe, Shutt 

ioslomus, Sowb. 

358 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

E. PUPACEA, 

ClONELLA, Jeff. 

Leptinaria, Beck , 

lamellata, P. & M. 

Zua, Leach 

lubrica, Mull. 

Ferrussacia, Risso 

folliculus, Gruner. 

Tornatellina, Beck 

Cumingi, Pfr. 

Acicula, (Leach) Risso 

Oundlachi, Pfr. 
 Stenogyra, Shuttl. 

Rumina, Risso 

decollata, L. 

Obeliscus, Beck 

maritima. Spix. 

Pseudobalea, Shuttl.... 

hasta, Pfr. 

Opeas, Alb 

Ooodalli, Mill. 

Subulina, Beck 

octona, Chem. 

Melaniella, Pfr 

acuticostata, Orb. 
 Macroceramus, Guild. 
 Macroceramus, Guild, s. str. 
 signatus, Guild. 

Anoma, Alb 

tricolor, Pfr. 

Lia, Alb 

Maugeri, Wood. 
 Balea, Prid. 

Megaspira, Lea 

elatior, Spix. 
 Clausilia, Drap. 
 Venia, (H. & A. Ad. J) Pfr.. 
 tridens, Schweig. 
 Pupa, Drap. 

Pupilla, Leach 

badia, C. B. Ad. 

Vertigo, Mull 

milium, Gould. 

OF CONCnOLOQY. 359 

H ^ s cS 5 ^ 

Pineria, Poey 

BeatJii'na, Poey. 
 Leucochila * 

fallax^ Say. 
 Strophia, Alb * 

mumia, Brug. 
 Ennea, H. & A. Ad 

Mcolor, Gould. 
 Stkeptaxis, Gray 

contusus, Fer. 

F. SUCCINEA. 

SiMPULOPSis, Beck 

sulculosa, Fer. 
 SucciNEA, Drap. 
 Amphibulima, fLain. ) Blainv. 
 pahda, Brug. 

Succinea, s. str ^ 

obliqua, Say. 

Bracliyspira, Pfr ^ 

tigrina, Lesueur. 

Omaloayx, Orb. 

unguis, Fer. 

In the following pages I offer a more detailed description of 
 the peculiar features of the distribution of the inoperculates, 
 in the different West Indian subprovinces. 

1. Ciiha, the Isle of Pines, the Bahamas and Bermudas. In 
 this subprovince there are very many peculiarly West Indian 
 forms. The subgenera of Helix most characteristic of Cuba 
 are : Eurycam-pta {H. Bonplandi, Lam.), Coryda [If. alauda 
 Fer.), Thelidomiis {B'. auncoma,¥er.\ Polymita {H.muscarum, 
 Lea), Polydontes (ff. imperator, Montf), and Caracolus [H. 
 Sagemou, Beck). In the Bahamas, Plaqioptycha, which belongs 
 rather to Haiti, is represented by H. Bahamensis, Pfr., and 
 other species. 

Liguus (L.fasciatns, Miill.), found also in Florida and the 
 adjacent Keys, confined in the Islands to Cuba and Haiti, has 
 most species in the former. Several of the subge..era of 

360 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Stenogyra are represented by peculiar species, — Oheliscus by 
 S. gujos. Poey, Melaniella by S. acuticostata, Orb., Pseudohalea 
 by *S' Itasta^ Pfr., found also in Haiti and Porto Rico. 

Strophia, {P mnviia, Brug.,) subgenus of Pvpa, has its chief 
 development in CuV)a and the Bahamas, and is found in the 
 Haiti and Porto Rico subprovinces, but not in Jamaica. 

Macroceramvs has the greatest number and most varied 
 forms {M. Pazi, Gund., M. daudms, Gund., M. turricula, Pfr.,) 
 in Cuba. Albers places Cylindrella tnrquata^ Morel., with 
 other species in Anoma^ subgenus of Macroceramus, but with 
 doubtful propriety. Whether the buccal plate is present as 
 in Macroceramus, or wanting as in Cylindrella, I am not in- 
 formed ; but G. torqnata and its immediate allies have re- 
 volving laminae on the axis, as is common in the latter genus, 
 but only known in M. ampins, Gund.. which, however, may 
 be a Cylindrella, as I have elsewhere suggested (Ann. Lye. N. 
 Y., VIII., p. 163.) Macroceramus is also found in the Baha- 
 mas, but not in the Bermudas. 

Pineria, established by Poey for two species found in the 
 Isle of Pines, allied to Macroceramus^ but placed by Pfeiffer 
 in Bulimus, is adopted by Albers as a subgenus of Pupa. A 
 Guadeloupe speeies is described as Helix Schraramihy Fischer. 
 B. Vieqnensis^ Pfr., of Vieque in the Porto Rico subprovince, 
 and of Barbadoes in the Guadeloupe subprovince, belong to 
 Pineria. 

In the Cuban subprovince, indeed in the Islands generally, 
 there is a marked absence of Eastern North American forms 
 of Helix. Albers has two in Polygyra, (a subgenus charac- 
 teristic of Mexico and the Southern United States ;) of one H. 
 auriculata, Say, is the type, and H. septemvolva, Say, of the 
 other. The only insular representatives are. of the former, H. 
 notata,F oey, of Cuba; of the latter, H.paludosa, Pfr., of that 
 Island and Jamaica, and H. microdoida, Desh., of the Baha- 
 mas and Bermuda. 

The inoperculated land-shell faunas of Cuba, Jamaica and 
 Haiti have special generic relations with that of Mexico and 
 Central America, as shown by the distribution of species of 
 Glandina, Spiraxis and Cylindrella, but difierent subgenera 
 are developed on the Continent and Islands. Of the first, the 
 subgenus Glandina {G. Sowerhyana, Pfr.) prevails on the for- 
 mer, but Oleacina [G.oleacea, Per.) in Cuba, and Varicella [G. 
 leucozonias, Walch) in Jamaica. StrepAostyla [S. Nicoleti, Shutt.), 
 subgenus of Spiraxis, is continental, while Ghersomitra? is 
 represented in Cuba, and Euspiraxis {S. costulosa, C. B. Ad.) 
 in Jamaica. I should remark that S. Cubaniana, Orb., and S. 
 episcopjttlis, Morel., of Cuba, appear to me to be improperly 
 placed by Albers in Oleacina. 

OP CONCHOLOGY. 361 

C>/Undrella has a.n extraordinary number of species in Cuba, 
 and of very varied forms, both externally, and internally as 
 regards the characters of the axis. The subgenera Urocoptis 
 (G. GJiieshreghti, Pfr.,) and Holospira {C. Pilocerei, Pfr.) are ra- 
 ther continental, while Gongylostoma [G. elegans, Pfr.,) and 
 Trachelia [C. porrecta^ GoxxXd) may be especially referred to 
 Cuba. 

The occurrence in Cuba of both operculated and inopercu- 
 lated species with well developed spinous processes is curious, 
 — I allude to Cltoannpoma liystrix and echinus, Wright, to Me- 
 lanidla aculicostata, Orb., and Cylindrella ElUotti, Poey. 

The family Proserpinacea belongs to Mexico, — the subgenus 
 Proserpina (P. depressa, Orb.) has insular representatives only 
 in Cuba, the Isle of Pines and Jamaica. 

Strictly South American forms are rare in the "West Indies, 
 excepting in the Guadeloupe subprovince. In Cuba there are 
 a few species of Bulimulus, but of subgenera which are ra- 
 ther of Mexican and Central, than South American form, viz: 
 Liostracus Marielinus, Poey, found also on the Florida Keys, 
 and L--ptomerus sepulcralis, Poey, which, as well as Mesem- 
 hrinus Bahamensis, Pfr., inhabits New Providence. 

Ortibalicua is most numerously represented in South America. 
 It has one species (0. undatus, Brug.) in Cuba, found also in 
 Jamaica and in the Guadeloupe subprovince. 

In South America there are two species of Balea, and it is 
 remarkable that one {B. Canleroiana, Gund.) is found in Cuba, 
 the only West Indian species, referred, indeed, to the genus 
 Baica by Pfeifter, with some doubt. 

There are several species in the Cuban subprovince, 
 which have most probably been introduced from Europe, — ■. 
 Slenogyra decollata, L., found at Havana, also at Ch^arleston, 
 S. Carolina, Helix ventrosa, Per., and Cionella acicula, Miill., at 
 Bermuda, — the latter also inhabiting Florida, and lately dis- 
 covered at Princeton, N. J., by Mr. A. D. Brown. 

2. Jamaica. Many West Indian forms belong to, and, as is 
 the case with Cuba, are peculiar to this subprovince. The 
 most characteristic subgenera of Helix are : Gysticopsis {H. 
 tenerrima, (C. B. Ad.), Pleurodonta [H. lucerna, Miill., H. soror, 
 Fer., and H. sinuata, Miill.), and Leptoloma {H.fuscocincta, C. 
 B. Ad.) Coryda and Thelidomus, more particularly Cuban, 
 are represented, the former by several species, of which H. 
 Gossei, Pfr., may be called the type, and the latter by H. cog- 
 nata, Fer., and H. aspera, Fer. 

The genus Sagda [S. Cookiana, Gmel.) is peculiar to Jamaica, 
 with the exception of the subgenus Odontosagda, which be- 
 lono^s to Haiti. 

362 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Ligvus and Slropliia,^ovindi both in Cuba and Haiti, are not 
 present in Jamaica. 

Macroceram.us, most numerously represented in Cuba and 
 Haiti, has 1 species only in this subprovince, M. Gossei, Pfr., 
 found also in Cuba and New Providence. Albers places in 
 Anoma, Cylindrella tricolor, Pfr., and other Jamaica species, 
 and in Lia (both subgenera of Macroceramus), C. Maugeri^ 
 Wood, and its allies, an arrangement which I am not, as at 
 present informed, prepared to accept. 

Stenogyra has representatives of Opeas and Suhulina, but 
 not of Pseudohalea or Melaniella. 

Of genera characteristic of Mexico and Central America, 
 Glandina, Spiraxis and Cylindrella are represented in Ja- 
 maica. Varicella [C. leucozonias, Walch), subgenus of Gkm- 
 dina, has its principal development in Jamaica. The species of 
 Spiraxis, unlike those of the Continent, are small, and belong 
 to the subgenus Euspiraxis. Of Cylindrella, the subgenera 
 Urocoptis, (C nobilior, C. B. Ad.) and Mychostoma [C. sv.lmla, 
 Far.) are numerously represented. Casta (C. elongata, Chem.) 
 is peculiar to this subprovince. 

The genus Proserpnna {P. nitida, Sowb., P. pisum, C. B. 
 Ad.) has a greater number of species in Jamaica than in Cuba. 

In this subprovince, as in Cuba, Bidimulus is feebly repre- 
 sented, — Lioslracas by B. eruhescens, Pfr., and Leptomerus by 
 B. immaculatus, C. B. Ad. 

Leptinaria, subgenus of Cionella, has two or three species in 
 South America ; and C. monodon, C. B. Ad., of Jamaica, is, I 
 belitive, properly placed in it. 

Orthalicus, as in Cuba, is represented solely by 0. undatus, 

There are no species in this subprovince which can be spoken 
 of as European or introduced from Europe. 

3. Haiti. The peculiar forms of Helix in this subprovince 
 belong to the subgenera Plagioptycha [H. loxodon, Pfr.), Eury- 
 cratera (H Dominicensis, Pfr.), Cepolis [H. cepia, Miill.) and 
 Caracolus [H. caracolla, L.) 

H Andebardi, Pfr., with its ally H. Luguillensis, Shuttl., of 
 Porto Kico, seem to be nqvj inconsistently placed by Albers 
 in the subgenus Polydontes, of which H. imperator is the type. 
 Odontosagda [S. pjolyodon, W. and M.), subgenus of Sagda, is 
 peculiar to Haiti. 

Llguvs is represented by L.virginevs, L., Avhich occurs also 
 in French Guiana, and Slropkia [S. glans, Kust.) has several 
 species in this subprovmce. 

Of Stenogyra, the subgenus Oheliscus has S. tereb aster, Lam., 
 Pseudobalea, S.hasta, Pfr., both found also in Cuba, and Opeas 

OF CONCHOLOOY. 3G3 

has *S'. Cararcasensis,'Rv.,which. inlaabits the Guadeloupe subpro- 
 vince and South America. 

MeJaniella is not represented. 

Macroceramus [M.formosus, Wood), with the exception of 
 Cuba, has the largest number of species in Haiti. Anoma tri- 
 color, Pfr.. is found in this as well as in the Jamaica subpro- 
 vince. The occurrence in Haiti of Vitrina (Malak. Blatt., 
 1858, p. 146), which belongs rather to Eastern North America, 
 is somewhat remarkable. 

The genus Hyalina is widely distributed, but the subgenus 
 Mesomphix [H.fuHginosa, Griff.) likewise more especially of 
 Eastern North America, is represented in the West Indies by 
 one species only, II. ptycoraphe, W. and M., of Haiti, where 
 Hyalina indentata^ Say, common in the United States, also 
 occurs. 

Qlandina, Spiraxis and Cylindre.lla, to which I have referred 
 as characteristic of the faunas of Mexico and Central America, 
 are represented in Haiti, — the two first by comparatively few 
 species. Those of Glandina belong to the subgenera Vari- 
 cella {G. hiplicata, Wein.), and Oleacina {G. o^eacea, Fer., found 
 also in Cuba.) Oleacina Paivana. Pfr., a sinistral species, is a 
 remarkable form. Of Spiraxis, the subgenus Euspxiraxis [S. 
 D'uvkeri, Pfr.) is alone represented. Cylindrella has a consid- 
 erable number of species, chieflv of the subgenus Urocojjtis 
 {C. Menkeana, Pfr.) 

In this suhprovince Orthalictis and Lepiinaria (South Amer- 
 ican) are wanting. Of Bulimidus, the subgenus Tliaiimastus 
 is represented by B. exilis, Gmel., widely distributed in the 
 Porto Rico and Guadeloupe subprovinces; Liostracusl by B. 
 Dominicvs, Rv., referred also to Mexico, and Mesemhrinv^s by 
 B. Moussoni, Pfr. 

The genus Simpulopsis has species in Mexico, but is more 
 especially South American. It is not found in Cuba or Ja- 
 maica, but there is one representative in each of the Islands 
 of Haiti (.S'. Domiviceusis, Pfr.), Porto Rico [S. Portoricensis, 
 Shuttl."^, and Trinidad (S. corrug itus, Guppy.) 

Haiti, as remarked with reference to the operculates, has, 
 the inoperculates also considered, more relationship with Cuba 
 than with Jamaica, as evidenced especially by the occurrence 
 of Liguus and Atrophia, and the many species of Microcera- 
 mus 

Seeing that Vitrina and M'somphix. as well as Ily tlina in- 
 dcntata. Say, are found in this subprovince, it may be said to 
 have a greater connection than Jamaica with Eastern North 
 America. 

4. Porto Rico, with Viejue andtJie Virgin Inland ft iveluding 
 also Anguilla, St. Martin and St. Bartholomeiv. This sub- 

364 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

province, compared with the preceding, has fewer peculiar 
 forms of Helix. Caracolus is represented by H. caracolla, L., 
 and H. marginella, Gmel.; the former found also in Haiti, the 
 latter of the same type as H. Soffemon, Beck, of Cuba. Bury- 
 cratera {H. angulata, Fer.) and Fla<iloptycha {H. Riisei, Pfr.) are 
 represented in Porto Rico and Vi^que, and the last by H. ne- 
 rrKwalina, Pet., in the Virgin Islands. TheUdomns, especially 
 Cuban, has in this subprovince, according to Albers, several 
 species, of which JI. lima, Fer., is the type, but he has JI. cas- 
 trensis, Pfr., its very near ally, in DeiUellaria, to which it 
 scarcely belongs. Morchia, subgenus of HijaUna^ is repre- 
 sented in Porto Rico by H. concolor, Fer. 

Strophia has P. microstoma, Pfr., and P. striatella, Fer., in 
 Porto Rico, and the latter, I believe, also in Anegada, — both 
 are found in Plaiti. 

Sttnogyra has Oheliscus terehraster, Lam., and Pseudohalea 
 hasta, Plr., in Porto Rico, and Melanidla gracillima, Pfr., (found 
 also in Cuba and Florida) in St. Thomas. 

Ilacroceramus has two species, J/, microdon, Pfr., in Porto 
 Rico, St. Thomas, St. John and Tortola, M. signatus, Guild, 
 in the latter Island and Anguilla. ylwoma and 2/a are absent. 

In this subprovince there are no strictly North American 
 forms. 

Oleacina ( G. glabra, Pfr.) and Varicella ( G. terehrieformis, 
 Shuttl.) are represented in Porto Rico alone, and by few spe- 
 cies. Spiraxis does not occur. Gylindrella has a small num- 
 ber of species, chiefly of the subgenus Mychostoma, one of 
 which, G. ijallida. Guild., is widely distributed. 

There is in this subprovince, as compared especially with 
 Cuba ai.d Jamaica, a marked diminution of Mexican and 
 Central American forms. It may, in fact, be said that east- 
 ward from Cuba to the eastern limit of the Porto Rico sub- 
 province, those, as well as strictly West Indian forms, dimin- 
 ish gradually in number, being at their minimum in the 
 Guadeloupe subprovince. 

Grthalicus does not occur, but more subgenera of Buli- 
 mulus are represented than in the Islands to the westward. 
 Besides 3Iesemhrinus [B. elongatus, Bolt.), Thauviastus [B. 
 exilis, Gmel ), Leptomerus (B fratercnlus, Fer.), and Liostracusf 
 {B. Hjalmarsoni, Pfr.), Drymaevs has B. liliaeeus, Fer. 

Leptinaria [G. Antillarum, Shuttl.) has three species, and 
 jSimpnlopsis one, as already mentioned. 

The only West Indian species of Glavsilia, G. tridens, Schweig., 
 of the subgenus Nenia, inhabits Porto Rico. The genus is 
 not represented on the Northern, but there are several species 
 on the Southern Continent. 

Ennea (subgenus of Pupa), which is more especially devel- 

OP coNciioLoaY. 3r.5 

oped in Africa, has a single species {P. hicolor, Gould), proba- 
 bly introduced from the East Indies where it is widelv dis- 
 tributed, in St. Thomas, and in Trinidad embraced in the 
 Guadeloupe subprovince. 

Several subfossil species are found in St. Croix, and among 
 them H. caracolla and H. marginella, Gmel., — also two species 
 of jStrophia, none of which are now living on the Island. Im- 
 pressions of an undetermined species of Strophia occur also 
 in the fossil guano of Sombrero.* 

The fauna of the Porto Rico subprovince has closer relations 
 with that of Haiti, than of Jamaica or Cuba. 

5. Guadeloiipe and Martiniqve, with Bar vda and the Islands 
 between it and them, and also Islands to the South, to and inclu- 
 sive of Trinidad. There is, as before observed, a very marked 
 decline in this subprovince of genera especially characteristic 
 of the West Indian fauna. Of Helix, the subgenus Thelido- 
 mus, belonging to Cuba and Jamaica, and Cepolis of Haiti, are 
 represented in Martinique, the former by H. discolor, Fer., and 
 the latter by H auride7-is, Rang. Mondiia, (subgenus of Hya- 
 liAia) has H. Baudoni, Pet. (closely allied to H. concolor, Fer., 
 of Porto Rico) in Guadeloupe. 

With very few exceptions, the rest of the Helices in this 
 sub[)rovince belong to the subgenus Dentellaria. That subo-e- 
 nus is represented in most of the Islands, and is, indeed, the 
 characteristic form of this subprovince, but it is not found in 
 St. Vincent or Trinidad. 

Albers places H. lycJmuchus, Miill., (erroneously attributing 
 it to Porto Rico) in Dentellaria ; but St. Simon (Jour, de 
 Conch., 1853), wnth reference to some anatomical peculiarity 
 and the form of the buccal plate, refers it to Zonites. lie sug- 
 gests that H. acuta. Lam., the shell of which is somewhat anal- 
 agous to that of lychnuchus, may have a similar organization, 
 and also belong to Zonites, — the buccal plate of the former is, 
 however, strongly ribbed,, and has marginal denticles. 

It is remarkable that Thelidomus discolor and the followino- 
 species of Dentellaria, as well as various species of other gen- 
 era, found in the Guadeloupe subprovince, also inhabit French 
 Guiana, viz : orhiculata, hahella, denliens, nux denticulata, and 
 hadia. 

Dorcasia [Helix) similaris, Fer., found in South America 
 and other parts of the world; also occurs in Barbados, 

The existence of Stenopms [S. lividus, Guild., and S. cruen- 
 tus, Guild.) in the Island of St. Vincent is a very marked 
 feature of the fauna of the Guadeloupe subprovince. This 
 genus is allied to Ncmina (an Asiatic form), in which the 

* A very interesting paper on the Geology of the Key of Sombrero, 
 by Alexis A. Julian, will be found in the Ann. of the Lyceum, VIII., 18G6. 

366 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

above named species were placed by Pfeiffer ("Vers, p. 113, 
 119, 1855), and H. zonites, Pfr., of Mexico, by Gray (Pulm., p. 
 140, 1855.) In 1865 I described (Ann. Lye, VIIL, 157) Sten- 
 opus Ouildingi, from Porto Cabello, Venezuela, and, from in- 
 formation given by Dr. Berendt, there is some reason to be- 
 lieve that at least one species inhabits Mexico. The occur- 
 rence of Stenopus in the Guadeloupe subprovince alone, affords 
 additional evidence of the close alliance of the faunas of that 
 subprovince and of South America. 

Liguus and Macroceramus, mentioned as "West Indian forms, 
 are not represented in this subprovince, and Atrophia only by 
 Strop)hia ziva, L., in Curagao.* 

Stenogyra has no peculiar species ; Opeas Caraccasensis, Rv., 
 occurs in several of the Islands, and also inhabits Soutb 
 America. Pineria Schrammi, to which I have already re- 
 ferred, is found in Guadeloupe, and P. Vieiuensis, Pfr., in Bar- 
 badoes, as well as in Vieque of the Porto Rico subprovince. 

There is a diminished number of representatives of Mexi- 
 can and Central American, as well as West Indian forms in 
 the subprovince under consideration. Glandina has only 
 Varicella (r^/ac/efo^^^^ews/s, Pfr., (Guadeloupe), and V. semitarum, 
 Rang. (Martinique.) 

•Spiraxis is wanting and Cylindrella has 3 species, the sub- 
 genus Mychostoma being represented by G. costata, Guild., in 
 Barbados, Gongylostoma by C. collaris, Per., in Guadeloupe 
 and Martinique, and T'rachelia? by C. Trinitaria, Pfr., in Trin- 
 idad. 

Proserpina, as before mentioned, is confined to the Cuba 
 and Jamaica subprovinces. 

The Guadeloupe subprovince is peculiarly rich in South 
 American forms. Bulimus, which belongs to the Southern 
 Continent, has of the subgenus Pelecychilus, B. auris Sileni, 
 Born., in St. Vincent, B. auris-sciuri, Guppy, in Trinidad, and 
 an allied, possibly the same species, (both enumerated in my 
 Catalogue, Ann. Lye, VII., as B. glaber, Gmel.) in Grenada ; 
 of Bonis, B. ohlongus, Miill., in St. Vincent, Tobago, Trinidad, 
 and Barbados, introduced in the latter, from St. Vincent, by 
 the late Rev. J. Parkinson ; of Eurytus, B. aulacostyhis, Pfr., 
 in St. Lucia. B. auris Sileni and ohlongus also inhabit French 
 Guiana. 

Several subgenera of Bulimulus are represented, viz.: Dry- 
 maeus, Liostracus, Mesemhrimis, Thaumastus and Leptomerus. 

* In my former paper (p. 143) I noticed H. pentodon, Menke, of Cura- 
 cao, overlooking the remarks of v. Martens ("Malak. Blatt., 1859, p. 209), 
 who, with much apparent reason, refers to it as a young example of S. 
 um. Strophia Antonii, Kust., of Berbice, is the only known South Amer- 
 ican species. 

OF coNCiioLoay. 36T 

No less than four of the species, B. mnltifasciatus, ehngatus, 
 exilis and fraterculns are also found in French Guiana. 

Orlhalicus, confined in the other subprovinces to Cuba and 
 Jamaica, has 0. undatus^ Brug., in Trinidad, and 0. undulatus, 
 Guild., in the Grenadines. 

Leptinaria has L. AntiUarnm, Shuttl., in several of the 
 Islands, L. Funcki, Pfr. in Grenada (also in British Guiana), 
 and L. lamellata, P. and M., in Guadeloupe, as well as on the 
 Southern Continent. 

Streptaxis has one species only in the West Indies, viz : S. 
 deformis, Fer., also in Trinidad, where Simpulopsis corrugatus, 
 Guppj, occurs. 

Several of the forms of Succinea in this subprovince are 
 peculiar The subgenus Aonphi.bulima is represented by S. 
 paiula, Brug., in St. Christopher and Guadeloupe?, /Succinea 
 by S. ruhescens, Desh., in Guadeloupe and Martinique (also in 
 French Guiana), Brachyspira by ^S'. tigrina, Lesueur, in St. 
 Vincent, and Omalonyx by S. unguis, Fer. (found also in Bra- 
 zil), and S. appendiculata, Pfr., in Guadeloupe. 

The distribution of the land shells in the West Indies seems 
 to warrant the division of the islands into the five above- 
 mentioned subprovinces, but it is very interesting to notice 
 that the distribution of plants renders a different division ne- 
 cessary, especially of the islands comprised in my Porto Rico 
 and Guadeloupe subprovinces. 

Grisebach, in the Preface to his "Flora of the British West 
 Indian Islands" (London, 1864), remarks, that the Islands, 
 though reaching beyond the tropics, "present a tropical char- 
 acter in their vegetable productions, and the Northern Baha- 
 mas in this respect are quite distinct from the opposite conti- 
 nental shore of Florida, from which it is separated by the Gulf 
 Stream ; while Trinidad, lying almost contiguous to the delta 
 of the Orinoco, partakes of the flora of Venezuela and Guiana. 
 Jamaica, again, from its mountainous character and inore dis- 
 tant position, — most of the Leeward islands from being wooded 
 volcanoes, — and a majority of the Windward ones, with a dry 
 climate, and a low, calcareous soil, form three divisions of this 
 tropical archipelago, which show as many peculiarities." 

The author adds, that the whole of the British West Indie?, 
 as comprised in his " Flora," may be divided into five natural 
 sections, each with a distinct botanical character, and including 
 the following islands, viz.: — 

I. Bahamas and Turk Islands. 
 II. Jamaica. 

368 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

III. Western Caribbean Islands (most Leeward, and in- 

cluding some of the Windward islands), viz. : Vir- 
 gin Islands, St. Kitts, Nevis, Montserrat, Dominica, 
 St. Lucia, St. Vincent, Grenada and Grenadillos. 

IV. Eastern Caribbean Islands (most Windward, and some 

Leeward islands), viz : Anguilla, Barbuda, An- 
 tigua, Barbados and Tobago. 
 V. Trinidad. 

It will be noticed that the Virgin Islands and Anguilla, em- 
 braced, with islands to which by their land-shell faunas they 
 are closely allied, in my Porto Rico subprovince, are placed 
 by Grisebach, the former in his third, and the latter in his 
 fourth section, and both with islands, to which they are not so 
 allied, comprised in my Guadeloupe subprovince. 

The boundaries (shown by the distribution of the land shells) 
 of the Porto Rico and Guadeloupe subprovinces are somewhat 
 sharply defined, and, in connection with an explanation as to 
 their limits, there are some facts (for which I am indebted to 
 Mr. Julien) relating to the geological position of part of the 
 former subprovince, which deserve consideration. 

The Eastern portion of the Porto Rico subprovince consists 
 of the Virgin and St. Martin banks and the Key of Sombrero, 
 the latter dividing the channel between the banks into two 
 passages, — the Anegada on the west, and the Sombrero passage 
 on the east of the Key. The Virgin bank, the nearest point 
 of which is forty miles from the Key, encircles St. Thomas, 
 St. John, Tortola, Anegada and the other islets of the Virgin 
 group, — deep water soundings oft' the edge of this bank vdvy 
 from 140 to 160 fathoms. I'he Key of Sombrero is also sur- 
 rounded by a submarine bank, the dimensions of which are 
 about three and a half by five miles, — soundings off" the outer 
 edge give from 105 to 150 fathoms. The St. Martin bank, 
 south-east of and about twenty miles from the Key, comprises 
 the islands of Anguilla, St. Martin and St. Bartholomew ; 
 soundings oft' tlie edge of the bank vary from 102 to I'JO 
 fathoms. 

The northern part of the Guadeloupe subprovince consists 
 of the islands immediately south and east of the St. Martin 
 bank, viz.: St. Kitts, Barbuda and Antigua, with the smaller 
 islanls of St. Eustatius and Nevis. 

The following are the principal dift'erences in the distribu- 
 tion of genera and species of land shells, on whic'i I rely as 
 authority for separating the last mentioned islands from the 
 Porto Rico subprovince, and placing them, with the islands to 
 the south, in the Guadeloupe subprovince: — 

Megalomastoma and Alcadia are found in Porto Rico, also 

OP coN'cnoLOOV. 369 

in St. Thomas and St. John. Macroceramus [M. mirrndon, Pfr.) 
 inhabits Porto liico, St. Thomas, Si. John and Tortola, and M. 
 sifjnatus, Guild., Tortola and AnguiUa, the latter on the St. 
 Martin bank. Strophia occurs in Porto Kico, St. Croix (sub- 
 fossil), Anogada and subfossil remains only of a species on 
 Sombrero. Megalomastoma, Alcadia, Macroceramus excluding 
 Pineria, treated as subgenus of it by H. and A. Adams, 
 and Strophia^ S. uva, L., of Curacao alone excepted, are not 
 represented in the Guadeloupe subprovince."^ 

Helix wAahilis, Shuttl., is found in St. Thomas (subfossil), 
 St. John, Tortola and Anegada of the Virgin bank, and in St. 
 Bartholomew of the St. Martin bank, but not in the Guade- 
 loupe subprovince. 

Dentellaria (subgenus of Helix), of which H. nnx denticu- 
 lata, Chem., and H.formosa, Fer., are types, is especially char- 
 acteristic of the Guadeloupe subprovince. It is represented 
 in Barbuda and Antigua by H.formosa, in St. Kitts by H. Jo- 
 sepliinse, Fer., subfossilf), and occurs also in Guadeloupe, Do- 
 minica, Martinique, Barbados. &c,, but not in the Porto Eico 
 subprovince. H. castrensis, Pfr., of Porto Rico, placed by Al- 
 bers in Dentellaria, and by Pfeiffer with species of that type, 
 is a questionable exception, — it appears to me to belong to the 
 same group as H. notahilis, and H. lima, Fer., — of the latter, 
 indeed, I have considered it a variety. 

The species common to the Porto liico and Guadeloupe sub- 
 provinces, of which a list is annexed, are few, and of a char- 
 acter, their general distribution also considered, favorable to 
 my views as to the separation of the two faunas. 

(Those marked * occur also in one or more of the other sub- 
 provinces, ** also in North America, f also in South America.) 

Hellcina fasciata, Lam. 

** Helix vortex, Pfr. 

f* Balimulus exilis, Gmel. 

t " elongatus. Bolt, 

t " fraterculus, Fer. 

Pineria Yie'iuensis, Pfr. 

Leptinaria Antillarum, Shuttl. 

* Stenogtjra OoodalU., Mil. 
 t* " octona^ Chem. 

* " octonoides, C. B. Ad. 
 *■=<• " siihula, Pfr. 

* I have already noticed that Megalomaatoma and StropMa do not occur 
 in Jamaica, tlie most soutlierly of the larger islands, and that Macrociira,>aus 
 is there represented by M. Gossei, Pfr , only, — a species found also in Cuba 
 and Florida. 

t The occurrence in St. Croix, St. Thomas, Sombrero and St. Kitts, of 
 subfossil, or at least of species not now living on those islands, is a subject 
 of much geological interest. 

sio 

AMERICAN JOURNAL 

** Pnpa peUucida, Pfr. 

Succinea aj^proximans, Shuttl. 
 Ennea licolor, Gould. 

I may add, that, both genericallv and specifically, there are 
 more intimate relations between the subprovinces of Haiti and 
 Porto Eico, than between those of the latter and Guadeloupe. 

OP CONCnOLOGY. 3tl 

DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF NORTH 
 AMERICAN LAND SHELLS. 

BY THOitAS BLAN'D. 

Helix Jacksonii, nov. sp. — Plate 21, fig. 8. 

T. anguste umbilicata, depressa, nitida, fusco vel pallide 
 cornea, siiperne vix elevata, striata subtus convexa, striis ex- 
 ilioribus; anfr. 6, convexiasculi, leiite accrescentes, ultiinus 
 antice subito deflexus, pone aperturani constrictus, superne 
 gibboso-inflatus ; sutura irapressa; apertura obliqua, lunato- 
 circularis, tridentata ; perist. callosum, fusco-roseuni, breviter 
 reflexurn, marginibus vix conniventibus, dente, albo, lingui- 
 forrni, bicruri, profunde intrante junctis, basali plica valida, 
 obliqua, sinuosa, dextro dente profiindo immerso munito. 

Shell narrowly umbilicate, depressed, shining, dark or pale 
 horn-colored, little elevated above, striated, convex beneath, with 
 finer almost obsolete striiie; whorls 6, slightly convex, gradually- 
 increasing, the last suddenly deflected, contracted and above 
 gibbously inflated behind the aperture; suture impressed; aper- 
 ture oblique, lunate-circular, with three teeth; peristome 
 thickened, brownish-red, shortly reflected, with the scarcely 
 approaching margins joined by a white, linguiform, bicural, 
 deeply entering tooth, the basal margin with a strong oblique, 
 sinuous fold, the right with a deeply seated tooth. 

Dimensions. — -Diara. maj. 7, min. 6, alt. 4 mill. 

Large dead specimens, brought down from the upper coun- 
 try by the streams flowing into the Arkansas Eiver, measure: 
 Diam. maj, 9, min. 8, alt. 4 mill. 

Habitat. — Fort Gibson, Indian (Cherokee) Territory, (V. B. 
 Hubbard!) 

Remarks. — This species belongs to the same group as, and 
 is most nearly allied to H. Hazardi, Bland, {H. plicata, Say,) 
 from which, however, it may be readily distinguished by the 
 very different character of the parietal and basal teeth. This 
 species has no internal tubercle. 

372 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

I am indebted for specimens of this interesting shell to Dr. 
 Ilabbard, of Tottenville, Staten Island. Thej were collected 
 by his son, Mr. V. B. Hubbard, Assistant Surgeon U. S. Army, 
 at whose wish I dedicate the species to his late friend and 
 fellow-Surgeon, E. M. S.Jackson, Corr. Memb. Acad. Nat. Sci., 
 Philadelphia. Dr. Jackson, at the time of his death, a year 
 since, at Chattanooga, was diligently engaged in studying the 
 fauna of that part of Tennessee. 

Helix significans, nov. sp. — Plate 21, fig. 9. 

T. umbilicata, depressa, discoidea, tenuis, irregulariter et 
 leviter striatula, striis subtus subobsoletis, nitens, pallide cor- 
 nea; spira parum elevata; sutura vix impressa; anfr. 6, sub- 
 planulati, ultimus rotundato-inflatus, basi subplanus, circa um- 
 bilicum excavatus; umbilicus pervius, fere J diametri sequans; 
 apertura obliqua, depressa, lunaris; perist. simplex, acutum. 

Shell umbilicate, depressed, discoidal, thin, with fine irregu- 
 lar striae, which are almost obsolete at the base, shining, pale 
 horn-colored ; spire little elevated ; suture slightly impressed ; 
 whorls 6, subplanulate, the last roundly inflated, rather flat at 
 the base, excavated around the umbilicus, which is pervious, 
 and equal almost to | of the diameter of the shell ; a[,erture 
 oblique, depressed, lunate; peristome simple, acute. 

Dimensions. — Diam. maj. 4|, min. 4, alt. 2 mill. 

Habitat— ¥oTt Gibson, Indian Territory, (V. B. IIul)bard !) 

Three specimens were found, — one apparently adult, the 
 others having respectively 4 and 5 whorls only. 

Remarhs. — This species belongs to the group of peculiarly 
 North American type, embraced by Albers in Qastrodonta^ 
 subgenus of Hyalina. It is especially allied to II. multiden- 
 lata, Binney, from which it differs in being of larger size, with 
 wider umbilicus, and in the absence in the last whorl of the 
 series of numerous small teeth which characterize Binney's 
 species. 

In a young specimen of H. significans, having four whorls 
 only, there, however, three small teeth, one by itself, and at 
 some distance from it, two others, situated as the teeth are in 
 II. multidentata. Whether these teeth are or not constant in 
 the antepenultimate whorl of H. signiftcans, I am unable to 
 determine. 

OP CONCIIOLOGY. 313 

H. Febigeri, nov. sp. — Plate 21, fig. 10. 

T. umbilicata, orbiculato-plana, tenuis, nitida pallide vel 
 rufo-Gornea, sufierne subdistanter costulato-striata, subtus sub- 
 striata; spira planata ; satura profunda; anfr. 5|-6, convexi- 
 usculi, regulariter accrescentes, ultimus ad peri(dieriam angu- 
 latus, infra unguium inflatus; umbilicus infundibuliformis; 
 apertura obliqua, subrenifonnis ; perist. incrassatum, breviter 
 reflexum, sinuosum, marginibus callo valido triangulari junctis. 

Shell umbilicate, orbicular, flat, thin, shining, pale or reddish 
 horn-colored, with rather distant rib-like striae above, finely 
 striated beneath; spire almost level; suture deep; whorls 
 5|-6, rather convex, regularly increasing, the last angular at 
 the periphery, inflated below; umbilicus funnel-shaped ; aper- 
 ture oblique, kidney-shaped ; peristome thickened, little re- 
 flected, the margins joined by a strong triangular callus. 

Dimensions. — Diam. maj. 8|, min. 7|, alt. 3| mill. A small 
 specimen measures: Diam. maj. 7|, min. 6|, alt. 3 mill. 

Habitat. — New Orleans, (Major G. L Febiger, U. S. A.!) 

Remarks. — This species certainly differs from H. cereolus, 
 Muhl., H. septemvolva, Say, H. volvoxis, Parr., and IT. Carpen- 
 teriana, Bid., the four species of the same group hitherto found 
 on the North American Continent. 

Compared with H. paludosa, Pfr., of Cuba, the rib-like striae 
 are more regular and prominent, it is more decidedly angular 
 at tlie periphery, and the form and armature of the aperture 
 are different. In H. Fehirjeri there is no such excavation be- 
 low the angle of the perifihery as prevails, more or less, in the 
 other above-named continental species. In this resfiect, and 
 in the form of the aperture, U. Febigeri appears to be most 
 nearly allied to H. microdonta, Desli., of Bermuda and New 
 Providence, but it is more coarsely striated, and the last whorl 
 is more inflated below. 

I am indebted for specimens of H. Feligeri to Mr. Isaac 
 Lea, who sent them, believing the species to be new. Many 
 examples were collected and forwarded to Mr. Lea by his 
 nephew. Major Febiger, who has long been interested in the 
 land shells of the United States, and to whom I dedicate the 
 species. 

SucciNEA HiGGiNSi, nov. sp.^ — Plate 17, fig. 24. 

T. depresso-ovata, tenuis, oblique striata, pellucida, nitidula, 
 pallide cornea ; spira brevis, obtusa ; sutura profunda ; anfr. 
 3, convexi, ultimus depressiusculus; columella vix arcuata, 
 supcrne conspicue plicata; apertura angulato ovalis, dente 
 parvo, obliquo, albo, in pariete aperturali sajpe armata ; perist 
 simplex, regulariter arcuatum. 

374 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Shell depressed- oval, thin, obliquely striated, pellucid, some- 
 what shining, pale horn-colored; spire short, obtuse ; suture 
 deep ; whorls 3, convex, the last rather depressed ; the colum- 
 ella scarcely arched, above conspicuously plicate ; aperture 
 angularly oval, frequently armed with a small, oblique, white 
 tooth on the parietal wall ; peristome simple, regularly ar- 
 cuate. 

Dimensions. — Long. 15, diam. 7 mill.; aper. 11 mill, longa, 
 medio 5 lata ; anfr. ult. fere 14 mill, longus. 

Hahitat. — Put in Bay Island, Lake Erie, (Frank Higgins!) 

Remarlcs. — This species is allied to 8. Salleana, Pfr., S.Hay- 
 deni, W. G. Binn., and especiallv to S. ovalis, Gould, non 
 Say. Compared with the latter, the last whorl, is less convex, 
 the aperture is more angular above, the columella less arcuate, 
 and more distinctly plicate. 

The measurements given are of one of the largest specimens. 
 This is the only North American species in which I have no- 
 ticed the parietal tooth mentioned in the description. Three 
 of my specimens have this tooth, — it is lamelliform, about 1 
 mill, in length at the base, the pointed apex having an eleva- 
 tion of about J mill. 

OF CONCIIOLOGY. 375 

REVIEWS. 

I.— AMERICAN 

Conchologieal Notes, Nos. 1 and 2. by w. h. dall. (From Proceed- 
 ings of the California Academy of Natural Sciences, 18GG.) 

On the Dentition of Octopus pundatus, Gahh. 

On a New Suhfamily of Fluviatile IfoUusca. 

In the latter paper, Pompholyx effusa, Lea, is made the type 
 of subfamily Pompholinse of the family Limneeidve. 

Proceedings of the Academ,y of Natural Sciences. Philadelphia, 
 18G6, No. 1. 

Remarks on a Species of Aturia from the Cretaceous of 
 New Jersey. BY peof. e. d, cope. 

Descriptions of Twelve New Species of Unionidse from South 
 America. BY Isaac lea. 

U. pecuUaris. U. acutirostris. 

" firmus. " ampullaceus. 

" rugososulcatus. "■ Paraguayensis. 

" apprimus. Monocondylcea lentiformis. 

" locellus. " Pazii. 

" p)arcus. Anodonta Pazii. 

Supplement to A. D. Brown's Catalogue of Shells. Princeton, 
 N. J., August, 18G6, 4 pp., 8vo. 

American Journal of Science and Arts. Second Series, XLII 
 No. 124, July, 18G6. ' 

A Clossif cation of Mollusca, based on the Principle of 
 Gephalization. BY Edward s. morse. 

We reviewed this excellent paper at length when originally 
 published in the "Proceedings of the Essex Institute." 

376 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

II.— FOEEIGN. 

BRITISH. 

Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London. 1865. Part 
 I., January- March. 

On the Synonymy of Sistrum cancellatum. BY W. HARPER 
 PEASE. 

Descri]ition of a New Species of Latirus, and Remarks on 
 others, inhabiting the Pacific Islands. BY W. harper 
 PEASE. 

Latirus gihhus. 

Descriptions of Tioo New Species of Shells in the Collection 
 of George French Angas. BY HENRY ADAMS and GEO. 
 FRENCH ANGAS. 

Suhuliiia, new S. Genus Coeliaxis, Ad. and Ang. 

Description. — Shell umbilicate; spire attenuate above. 

Suhtdina [Coeliaxis) Layardii, Cape of Good Hope. 
 Truncatella (Taheitia) clathrata, Solomon Islands. 

Descriptio7is of Ten New Species of Shells, chiefly from the 
 Australian Seas. BY GEORGE FRENCH ANc:iAS. 

Volnta [Ahithoe) kreuslerse, South Australia. 

" {Lyria) Archeri, Montserrat, W. Indies. 

Mitra Bosetiije, Eosctta Head, Encounter Bay, 

South Australia. 

Si'phonalia fuscozonata, South Australia. 

Columbella interrupta, " " 

Eulima augur, " " 

Patella alticostata, Port Lincoln, South Australia. 

" Gealei, " " 

Crepidula immersa, *' ^ " 

Myodora convexa, New Caledonia. 

Sup)plementary Notes to the Review of Vermetidse. BY 0. 
 A. L. MORCH. 

Tenagodus Reentzii. 

" Mohii, Manilla ? 

Thylacodes melanostomus, Zanzibar. 

Descrip)tions of Four New Species of Marine Shells from 
 South Australia. BY GEORGE FRENCH ANGAS. 

Nassa compacta. Acmcea scabrilirata. 

Patella latistrigata. " suhundulata. 

OF CONCHOLOOY. 377 

On the Marine Molluscan Fauna of South Australia, tenth 
 a List of all tlie Sj'iecies known np to the present time ; 
 together icith Remarks on their Habitats and Distrihu- 
 tion, &C. BY GEORGE FRENCH ANGAS. 

This is a very complete paper of 45 pages, giving the syn- 
 onymy of the species and their geographical and bathymetri- 
 cal distribution. 231 species, in all, are enumerated. 

List of Mollusks collected by Mr. R. Sioi7iehoe in Formosa. 

Diagnoses of Xew Forms of Mollusca from the Vancouver 
 Lkstrict. BY PHILIP P. CARPENTER. 

Tereoratula unguicula. Saxidomus brevisiplionalus. 

Darina declivis. 

A new subgenus, Ndtastomella, is formed for Pholas Dar- 
 winii, Sowb., which inhabits Vancouver, San Diego, and Mon- 
 terey, California, as well as the supposed original locality, 
 Chili. Mr. Carpenter remarks, that "we had probably not 
 seen a specimen of this species, else we could hardly have 
 placed it in the synonymy of Pholadidea j^nita.^^ He is cor- 
 rect in his supposition; our judgment was made up from the 
 imperfect figure of Sowerby's Monograph and the description. 
 We gracefully yield the point. 

The following is the diagnosis of lietastomella: '^Pholadidea; 
 valvis postice in calycem testaceum plauatum prolongatis ; 
 calyce coriaceo nullo." 

List of the Land and Fresh-water Shells of the Zambesi and 
 Lake A'yassa, Eastern Tropical Africa, collected by John 
 Kirk, M. I)., &C. BY DR. H. DOHRN. 

Streptaxis Kirkii. ' Lanistes Nyassanus. 

Ennea Isevigata, Melania iiodicincta. 

Buliminus Kirkii. '' Victorise. 

Diagnoses of Neiu Species and a Neio Genus of Mollusks 
 from the Reigen Mazatlan Collection; with ari Account 
 of Additional Specimens presented to the British Museum. 
 BY PHILIP P. CARPENTER. 

Cycladella, N. Genus, {KelliadosP) 
 Cycladella papyracea. Diala pauper cula, C.B.Adams. 

Montacuta obtusn. " Mangelia sulcata. 

Scissurella rimuloides. Mucronalia involuta. 

Vitrinella ornata. Leiostraca producta. 

" tenuisculpta. 

378 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

Descripiions of New Species and Varieties of Ghitonid'de 
 and Acmseidse from the Panamct Collection of the late 
 Prof. G. B. Adams, by philip p. carpenter. 

Lepidopleurus Adamsii. Gallochiton pulchellus. 

" tenuisculptus. Acmsea {? flocccUa var.) filosa. 

Ischnochiton Elenensis. " suhrotunda. 

" expressus. " vernicosa. 

Diagnoses of New Species of Mollushs from the West Tropi- 
 cal Region of North A'luerica, pri7icip)ally collected hy the 
 Rev. J. Rowell, of San Francisco. BY PHILIP p. car- 
 penter. 

Tellina [Angulns) decumhcns. Mangelia alholaqueata. 

Lucina undata. Eulima falcata. 

Galliostoma [Hima,\n.T.)8egm Gerithiopsis intercalaris. 

sculpita. Golumhella humerosa. 

Narica insculpia. Muricidea duhia, var. sipiamu- 
 Drillia ehurnea. lata. 

Part 2. April — June. 

List of the Land Shells collected hy Mr. Wallace in the 
 Malay Archipelago, tvith Descripdions of the New Species 
 hy Mr. Henry Adams, by ALFRED R. WALLACE. 

The new species described by Henry Adams : — 

Helix {Dorcasia) compta. Helix [Geotrochus) Blanfordi. 

" (Planispira) aspasia. Leptopoma scalare. 
 '■' ( Geotroc/ius) Waigiouensis. Pupina Pfeifferi. 
 '•'■ " turris. Truncatella [Taheitia) Wallacei. 

Description of a Neiu Species of Gonldia from Port Jackson. 
 BY GEORGE FRENCH ANGAS. 

G. Ausiralis. 

Descriptions of Two Species of Ghitonidse, from the Collec- 
 tion of W. Harper Pease. BY PHILIP P. CARPENTER. 

Lophyrus perviridis. Acanthopleura nigropunctata.^ 

Descriptions of New Genera and Species of Marine Shells 
 from the Islands of tite Central Pacific. BY W. HARPER 
 PEASE 
 Lihratida, new gen. [Galeommidse) 
 Lihratula plana. 3Iitra nigricans. 

Mitra saltata. Neritina ruhida. 

Engina fusiformis. Eulima subpelhicida. 

" ovata. Purpura mai-morata. 

OF coNCiioLoaY. 379 

Nassa ohliqua. Cypriva fuf^co marvlata. 
 Goralliohia sculptilis. " Candida. 

Torinia conica. Planaxis ahhreviata. 

Turriciila putillus. Pedicularla Par.ijica. 
 Mitroidea, u. gen. [Miiridix.) 
 " viultiplicata. 

To this paper is added the following, bj P. P. Carpenter, 
 wliicli we copy for the benefit of American conchologists:* — 

"The following list of synonyms, drawn out from a careful 
 comparison with the Cumingian Collection, and with the types 
 described in Dr. Gould's 'Otia,' which happened, fortunately, 
 to be temporarily in my possession, may be useful to those 
 who have received the shells under Mr. Pease's MS, names." 
 —P. P. C. 

Atys dehilis appears to be identical with A.succisa,^\\v., and 
 simply a slender variety of A. alicula, A. Ad. 

Fissurella granifera, Pse., is a good species of Glyphis. 

Rimula fenestrata, Pse., is a very young Glyphis. 

Conus fusiformis, Pse., (= C. jnisilla, Pse., Olim.) is a small 
 species of Oonella, Swains. 

Daphnella hella, Pse., belongs to one of the Columhelloid 
 genera, probably to Anachis. 

Cithara costulifera, Pse., = Anachis atomella, Sowb., var. 

G. varia^ Pse., is probably an Anachis, = Golumhella vir- 
 ginea, Gld., (from type.) 

G. Garrettii, Pse., is a Mitrella. 

Borsonia corrugata^ Pse., = [C lathnrella) nebulosa, Pse;, 
 (teste H. Cuming.) 

Natica undulata, Pse., = appears to be the young state of 
 the Pacific variety of N. fnaroccana^ Cheran. 

Nassa plicata., Pse., is a dwarf, strongly sculptured variety 
 of N. oUvacea, Brug., (teste H, Cuming.) The characters of 
 th« mouth exactly agree. 

N. microstoma, Pse., is a white variety of A" dermestina, 
 Gld. 

N. turricula, Pse., and N. unifasciata, Pse., appear to be va- 
 rieties of N. paupera, Gild., =^2^lebecida, Gld., (from types.) 

Golumhella pellucida, Pse., is probably a Nitidella (or Mi- 
 trella.) 

G. flammea, Pse., belongs to the same section ; it appears to 
 be a variety of G. henlata, Ad. and Reeve, (not Phil.) G. 

* We suppose Mr. Pease will scarcely acciuiescc In (M of these decisions. 

380 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

lineolata, Gld,, and C. decolor, Grid., are conspecific, (teste type 
 specimens in Mus. Smiths.) 

Columhella, sp. ind., (like axistralis,) F&e.,=-G. araneosa, Gld., 
 var. It belongs to Amycla.) 

G. sagitt% Gask., is also an Amycla. In Mr. Pease's series 
 of specimens, the arrow-pattern gradually passes away. 

Sistrum seminodosum, Pse., = elatum^ Blainv. var. 

Mitra brunnea, Pse., = Strigatella fuscescens, Pse., var. (teste 
 H. Cuming.) 

M. tessellata, Pse., = M. puella, Eve. (teste H. Cuming.) 

Triton crenulatus, Pse., = Eindromus antiquatus, lids. 

Descriptions of Four Neiv Scintillse and One New Pythina 
 from the Collection of Mr. H. Cuming. BY G. B. SOWERBY. 

Scintilla semiclausa, Borneo. 
 " lactea, *' 

" rosea, Lizard Islands. 

" ohlonga, Borneo. 

Pythina striaiissima, " 

Descriptions of Two Neio Species of Conus frora the Collec- 
 tion of A. Cuming., and Tivo from the Collection of the 
 late Mr. Denisson. BY G. B. SOWERBY. 
 C. suhcarinatus, Nicobar Isles. 

C. straturatus, Borneo. 

G. sagittatus, ? 

C. m^dticatenaius, ? 

Report on the Terrestrial and Fluviatile Molhisca of Pales- 
 tine. BY H. B. TRISTRAM. 

"The character of the Molluscan fauna of I'alestine par- 
 takes, as might have been expected, of the same variety which 
 marks the other branches of its fauna and flora. There are, 
 however, fewer exceptions to its general character as a part of 
 the Mediterranean basin, and fewer traces of the admixture of 
 African and Indian forms. Northern types, especially of the 
 genus Clausilia, are frequent in the Lebanon and on its south 
 ern spurs in Galilee. The Molluscan fauna of the maritime 
 plains and the coast possesses no features distinct from those of 
 Lower Egypt and Asia Minor. The shells of the central re- 
 gion are scarce, and not generally interesting; while on the 
 borders of the Jordan valley and in the southern wilderness, 
 we meet with very distinct groups of Helix and of Bulimus, 
 chiefly of species peculiar, or common in some few cases to 
 the Arabian desert. 

"The fluviatile MoUusca are of a type very much more tropi- 

OF CONCHOLOOY. 381 

cal in its character than that of the terrestrial shells. There 
 are hei'e but few species similar to those of the east of Europe. 
 Most of the specimens are identical with, or similar to, those 
 of the Nile and of the Eujihrates; and some of the genus J/e- 
 lanopsis are peculiar to the Jordan or its feeders. It seems 
 probable that the inhabitants of the waters were belter able 
 to sustain the cold of the glacial epoch than the Mollusks of 
 the land; and from the post-tertiarj remains found by the 
 Dead Sea, we may infer that the species now existing have 
 been transmitted fi'om a period antecedent to the glacial ; while 
 the more boreal forms introduced at that epoch have main- 
 tained their existence in the colder districts of Northern Pales- 
 tine, to the exclusion of the southern species, which have not 
 succeeded in re-establishing themselves. The beautiful group, 
 Achatina, requiring a degree of moisture not generally found 
 in Palestine, is only represented by a few insignificant and al- 
 most microscopic species." 

One hundred and nineteen species are enumerated, collected 
 by the author, of which the following are new : — ■ 

Succinea glohosa. Clausilia Oenezeretliana. 
 Helix Carrnelita. " Medlycotti. 

" Masndse. Melania mbro -punctata. 

J^ulimns Urise. Melanopsis ammonis. 
 Pupa Lihanotica. " Eremita. 

" Hebraica. Unio Simonis. 

" ejjiscopalis. 

Conehologica Iconica by lovell reeve. Parts 254, 255. 4to., 
 London, 18(56. 

The following monographs are contained in the present 
 issue : — 

Vertagus. (Concluded.) Plates 3 to 8. March, 1866. 

Eulima. (Concluded.) Plates 5 and 6. March, 1866. 

Telescojnum. 1 plate. March, 1866. 

Gerithidea. 2 plates. March, 1866. 

Unio. (Continued) Plates 31 to 38. March, 1866. 

"U. complanatus, Lea, &c.," is made a synonym of U. coarc- 
 tatus, Lam. Had Solander been quoted for this species by 
 American authors, instead of following the pernicious practice 
 of changing the authority for the name with every change of 
 genus, this error would not have occurred. We are further 
 informed that "The synonymy of this species has been much 
 confused with that of Lea's Symphynota comp)lanata,^''\ which 
 belongs to the genus Maryaritana. 

382 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

We doubt if ZTnio heterochn bas ever been found in "Georgia," 
 or any other Soutbern State. 

Unio Hildrethiamis, Lea, species 192, is a Margaritana. 

Unio olivarius is described (species 195) without authority 
 or habitat. They are : Dr. Lea, and India. 

Uiiio leiis. The specimen figured at species 200 is not cha- 
 racteristic. 

The coloring of the Unio plates continues to be very su- 
 periur. 

FEENCH. 

Journal de Conehyliologie. Third Series, Vol. VI., No. 2, April' 

186G.* 

The present number contains over 100 pages of contribu- 
 tions, and is illustrated by three colored plates. 

Note sur Us Volutes operculees, et catalogue des esj^^ces vi- 
 vantes qui a'pjyartiennent au genre Lyria. BY H. CROSSE. 

Note complementaire sur V opercule du Ghrysostoma Nico- 
 haricum, Gmelin. BY H. CROSSE. 

The operculum being corneous, instead of calcareous, ex- 
 cludes this shell from the Turbos. In this respect, and also 
 in the smooth callous columella, it approaches very close to 
 Rotella or to Isandra. 

Observations sur la faune malacologique de la Cochinchine 
 et du Gavihodje, comprenant la descrijjtion des esp)^ces nou- 
 velles. BY JULES MABILLE and GEORGE LE MESLE. 

Veronicella Crosseana. Hemisinus Baudonianus. 

Zonites Ramhuriayius. Paludina Camhodjensis. 

"■ Bourguignatlanus. " Fisclieriana, 

Limnaea Crosseana. 

Descriptions d'esplces nouvelles de VArchJpel CaUdonien. 
 BY M. SOUVERBIE and E. R. MONTROUZIER. 

Narica foveolata, Mont. Columhella troglodytes, Sou v. 

Troclbus scrohiculatus, Souv. Scalaria snhauriculata, Souv. 

" Reevei, Mont. Melampus Montrouzieri, Souv. 

Monodonta Fischeri, Mont. Valuta deliciosa, Mont. 
 Columhella lactescens, Souv. 

* This excellent Journal is published quarterly by M. H. Crosse, No. 35 
 Rue Tronchet, Paris. Price 20 francs (=about $8 per annum. It may be 
 ordered through any of our importing booksellers. 

OF CONCHOLOGY. 383 

Description cVnn Ileliceen nonveau des Philipjn'nes. by o, 
 SEMPER. 

Cochlostyla Datlaensis, Semper. 

Coquilles nouveUes recueillies par le Dr. Ft. Wehaitsch dans 
 VAfrique eqtiatoriaJe, et j^ccrticulibrement dans les provinces 
 Portugaises d^ Angola et de Benguella. BY A. MORKLET. 
 Helix Welwitschi. Achatina j)olychroa. 

Ennea pupiseformis. " Hortenstoe. 

Limicolaria chromatellus. " specularis. 

" j'lspideus. " harligera. 

Bulimus Wehviischi. " strigosa. 

Achatina Bandeirana. " monticola. 

" Welwitschi. " Petrensis. 

" Tavaresiana. Limnsetis snccinoides. 

" Bayaona. Physa Welwitschi. 

"■ coluhr-ina. " glohosa. 

" Paivana. " Angolensis. 

" zehriolata. 
 The specific name of Ph. glohosa being pre-occupied by 
 Prof. Haldeman for an American species, we suggest that the 
 one above be called Ph. Moreletii. 

Description d^esplces nouvelles. BY H. CROSSE. 
 Pupa canaliculata, loc. ? Columbella isabellina, loc. ? 

Leptop)oma achatinum, loc. ? 

Notice relative a la Syndosmya strigilloides, Vaillant. BY 
 O. SEMPER. 

Mr. Semper gives the description of StrigiUina lactea, Dan- 
 ker, of which he states the above to be a synonym. 

Description d^un Rimula de la Nouvelle- Caledonie, accom- 
 pagnee d'' observations sur la valeur du genre et du cata- 
 logue des esp^ces vivantes. BY H. CROSSE. 
 B. Mariei, Crosse. 

Description de coquilles fossiles des terrains tertiares supe- 
 rieurs. BY M. C MAYER. 

Turritella aspera, Sismonda. 
 " Bellardii, Mayer, 
 " Isevissima, " 
 *' Sandhergeri, " 
 " Sismondai, " 

Un MoUusque Men maltraite. by h. crosse. 
 We publish in this number of our Journal a translation of 
 this sprightly article, furnished by Mr. Daulte. As a brochure, 
 it has reached a second edition in Paris. 

Bihliograpjhie. 

384 AMERICAN JOURNAL 

SCIENTIFIC INTELLIGENCE. 

We leaen from the Annual Report of the Trustees of the 
 Museum of Comparative Zoology, at Cambridge, for 1865, 
 that Mr. John G. Anthonj'-'s collection of land and fresh- water 
 shells, recently acquired by the Museum, numbers about five 
 thousand species, and an unusually large stock of duplicates 
 for exchanges. From other sources, 2,616 species have been 
 obtained, including a portion of the Brazilian collections of 
 Prof. Agassiz and party. A few of the latter are new to 
 science, and will, probably, be described in this Journal at a 
 future period. 

The Report shows great activity and improvement in the 
 several departments of the Museum. 

Since our last Number was issued, the premises of the 
 New York Lyceum of Natural History, the Chicago Academy 
 of Science, and the Portland Society of Natural History, with 
 most of their contents of books and specimens, have, unfortu- 
 nately, been destroyed by fire. These are very severe losses 
 to the members of these useful institutions, as well as to sci- 
 ence at large. At Chicago most of the Conchological collec- 
 tion was saved. 

The Fine Collection of Shells, part of the estate of 
 the late Judge Cooper has been purchased by George C. Wal- 
 ker, Esq., of Chicago, for presentation to the Chicago Academy 
 of Sciences. The collection numbered nearly 3000 species. 

We are pleased to announce the intended publication by 
 this very enterprising Society, of "Proceedings" and "Me- 
 moirs," the former in 8vo., the latter in -Ito.; both to be fully 
 illustrated. 

Building Fund of the Academy of Natural Sciences 
 OF Philadelphia. — The subscriptions to this Fund now 
 amount to over $54,000, leaving $46,000 yet to be obtained 
 during the present year, in order to enable the Academy to 
 render properly available to the public its immense collections 
 in Natural History. Contributions, large or small, are solic- 
 ited, and may be enclosed to the Editor of this Journal. For 
 this purpose, a subscription paper is inserted with this number. 

INDEX 

TO THE GENERA AND SPECIES DESCRIBED. 

385 

386 

Paire. 

Anculosa twniata, Con., 128 

" tintiimabulnm, 128 

" trilineata, Say, 127 

trivittata,DeK.,127 

" Troostiana, L., Ii8 

tuberculata,L., 126 

" variabilis, Lea, 127 

" virgata, Lea, 128 

" viridis, Lea, 127 

" vittata, Lea, 129 

zebra, Anth., 129 

Angitrema Wheatleji, T., 4 

Anodou inornata, Anth., l-l-i 

" McNielii, Anth, 144 

" subgibbosa, A., 144 

Astarte compsonema, C, 72 

" distans, Con., 72 

Thomasii, Con., 72 

Azara undata, Con., 280 

Binneya notabilis, Cooper, 244 

Bulliopsis, Conrad, 65 

Busycon alveatum. Con,, 68 

" striatum. Con., 69 

Cancellaria alter nata, C, 67 

" biplicifera, C, 67 

" engonata. Con., iiS 

" perspectiva, C, 67 

" plagiostoma,C., 68 

" scalarina, Con., QS 

Carditamera aculeata. Con., 73 

Carelia olivacea. Pease, 293 

Chondropoma Navassense, 

Tryon, 305 

Chromodoris, Aid. & Han., 207 

Cimomia, Con., 102 

Columna Leai, Tryon, 297 

Corbula aliformis, Con., 76 

" contracta, Con., 280 

Crassatella curta, Con,, 104 

" peralta, Con., 104 

" planata. Con., 104 

Cumingia borealis, C, 76, 106 

Cyclomera, Con., 78 

Cyprsea annulifera, Con., 69 

Pcip:o. 

Cyprirneria, Con,, 102 

" Peruviam,C,105 

Diploschiza cretacea, C, 

77, 105 
 Dosinia Fioridana, Con,, 280 

! Ecpliora, Con,, 75 

i Euryc^lon Leai, Tryon, 5 

\ Gadiis, Rang., 75 

Glandina Albersii, Pfr., 227 

bullata, Gould, 226 

" decussata,Desb.,227 

i " parallela, W. G. 

! Binn., 226 

I " Texa3iana,Pfr., 226 

! " truncata, Say, 225 

" turris, Pfr., 227 

" Vanuxeinii,Lea,226 

Goniobasis Abbevillensis, 

! Lea, 22 

I " abbreviata,A. 17 

" abjecta, Hald. 39 

" abrupta, Lea, 32 

" abscida, A. 117 

" acuta. Lea, 25 

" acutocarinata, 

Lea, 29 

" adusta, Anth., 37 

" asqua, Lea, 116 

" iequalis, Hald., 18 

" Albanyensis, 

Lea, 15 

" Alabamensis, 

Lea, 116 

" Alexandrensis, 

Lea, 38 

" ambusta, A., 118 

" amoena. Lea, 19 

ampla, Anth., 118 
 " angulata, A., 28 

" angustispira, 

Anth., 38 

" Anthonyi,Lea,36 

INDEX, 

387 

Page. 
 Goniobasis approximata, 

Hald., 39 

" arachnoidea, 

Antb., 17 

" arctata, Lea, 118 

" assimilis, A., 30 

" aterina, Lea, 31 

" athleta, Antb., 25 

" auricoma. Lea, 32 

" auricubieformis, 

Lea, 31 

" babylonica, L., 38 

baculum, A., 26 

" Bairdiana, L , 27 

basalis, Lea, 120 

" belba, Con., 17 

belluLa, Lea, 120 

" Bentoniensis, 

Lea, 1 6 

" bicolorata, A., 38 

" Binneyana, L., 31 

" blanda, L., 18, 21 

" Boykiniana,L., 16 

" brevispira, A., 38 

" Bridgesiana, 

Lea, 28 

" brunnea. A., 37 

" Buddii, Lea, 40 

bulbosa, Gld. 34 
 bullula. Lea, 121 
 " cadus, Lea, 19 

" cselatura, Con., 14 

" Cabawbensis, 

Lea, 36 

calculoides,L.,120 
 " caliginosa, L., 24 

" canceHata, S., 24 

capibaris, L., 122 
 " carinifera, L., 17 

" carinocostata, 

Lea, 18 

" casta, Antb., 28 

" castanea, Lea, 37 

Cataba3a,Hald.,30 
 " catenaria. Say, 15 

" catenoides, L., 15 

Page. 
 Goniobasis cerea, Lea, 24 
 Cbristyi, Lea, 20 
 cinerea Lea, 34 
 cinerella. Lea, 24 
 cingenda. A., 146 
 circincta. Lea, 25 
 circumlineata, 

Tryon, 36 

dara, Antb., 120 
 Clarkii, Lea, 26 
 clausa. Lea, 117 
 clava3formis,L.,37 
 cognata, Antb. 32 
 columella, Lea, 21 
 comma, Con., 25 
 concinna. Lea, 26 
 congesta. Con., 31 
 Conradi, Brot., 17 
 continens. Lea, 22 
 Coosaensis,L., 117 
 copio&a, Lea, 119 
 coracina, A., 21 
 corneola, A., 23 
 costulata. Lea. 24 
 costifera,Hald.,22 
 Cou peril, Lea, 16 
 crebricostata, 

Lea, 25 

crenatella, L., 40 
 crepera. Lea, 117 
 crispa. Lea, 20 
 cristata, Antb., 27 
 cruda. Lea, 27 
 cubicoides, L., 27 
 culta. Lea, 119 
 Cumberland- 

iensis, Lea, 37 
 Curryana, Lea, 22 
 curvicostata, 

Antb., 25 

curvilabris, 

Antb., 38 

cuspidata, A., 33 
 cylindracea, 

Conrad, 115 
 DeCampn, L., 26 

Page. 
 Goniobasis decora, Lea, 25 
 " decorata, A., 14 

" densecostata, 

Eeeve, 25 

" depjgis, Lea, 32 

" Deshayesiana, 

Lea, 22 

" difficilis. Lea, 24 

" dislocata, Eve., 28 

" Dooleyensis,L.,22 

" Downiana, L., 16 

" Draytonii,Lea, 30 

" dubiosa, Lea, 37 

" Duttonii, Lea, 20 

" ebenum, Lea, 31 

" Edgariana, L., 23 

" elata, Antb., 38 

" elegantuba, A., 17 

" eliminata, A., 26 

" Elliottii, Lea, 36 

" ellipsoides,L..121 

elliptica, Lea, 121 
 " Bmeryensis,L., 19 

Estabrookii,L.,-37 
 " Etowabeiisis, 

Lea, 16, 35 
 " excavata. A., 121 

" expansa, Lea, 28 

" fabalis. Lea, 116 

fallax, Lea, 115 
 " fascinans,Lea,117 

" flava, Lea, 35 

" flavescens.Lea, 15 

" fbrmosa. Con., 20 

" fraterna. Lea, 29 

funebralis. A., 37 
 " fumea, Lea, 116 

furva. Lea, 37 
 " fuscocincta, A.,30 

" fusifbrmis,L.,120 

" Gabbiana,Lea, 37 

" Georgiana, L., 32 

" Gerbardtii, L. 29 

" germana, A. 119 

" gibbosa. Lea. 32 

glabra. Lea, 32 

Page. 
 Goniobasis glandaria, L. 120 

" gracillima, A. 26 

" gracilior, A. 34 

" gracilis. Lea, 21 

" graminea, H. 32 

" granata. Lea, 14 

" grata, Anth, 35 

" gravida, A. 119 

" grisea, Anth. 119 

" Grosvenorii,L. 38 

" Haldemani, T. 38 

" Haleiana, Lea, 39 

" Hallenbeckii, 

Lea, 16 

" barpa, Lea, 118 

" Hartmanii, L. 118 

" Hayesiana, L. 118 

" hybrida,Anth. 30 

" Hydeii, Con. 14 

" impressa,Lea, 141 

" inclinans. Lea, 17 

" inconstans, L. 22 

" induta, Lea, 20 

" infantula. Lea, 34 

" inflata, Ilald. 120 

" informis. Lea, 38 

" infuscata. Lea, 29 

" inornata, A. 38 

" inosculata. Lea, 

36, 115 

" instabilis, L. 20 

" intercedens, L. 28 

" interlineata, A.38 

" interrupta, H. 20 

" intersita, Hald. 21 

" intertexta, A. 17 

" interveuiens,L.19 

" iota, Anth. 30 

" Kirtlandiana, 

Lea, 38 

Iteta, Jay, 118 

" lo3vigata, Lea, 37 

" laqueata, Say, 20 

" larvaeformis, L.31 

" latitans, Anth. 40 

" Lecontiana, L. 19 

INDEX 

389 

Page. 

Goniobasis lepida, Lea, 117 

" Lewisii, Lea, 120 

Liiidsleyi, L. 23 

" lita, Lea, 115 

" Lithasioides,L. 34 

livescens, M_. 33 

" Louisvillensis, 

Lea, 34 

" luteola, Lea, 119 

" Lyonii, Lea, 25 

macella,Aiith. 30 

" mediocris, L. 20 

mellea, Lea, 118 

Milesii, Lea, 33 

" modesta. Lea, 29 

" monozonalis, 

Lea, 20 

" mutabilis. Lea, 22 

" mutata, Brot. 21 

" napella, Anth. 33 

" nassula, Con. 23 

" neb-ulosa, Con. 17 

" negata, Lea, 121 

" Newberryi, L. 33 

" Nickliniana,L. 31 

nigrina, L. 27, 39 
 " nigrocincta, A. 30 

" nitens, Lea, 21 

" nodulosa, Lea, 24 

" obesa, Anth. 18 

" obtusa, Lea, 19 

" occata, Hinds, 15 

" Ohioensis, L. 38 

" oliva. Lea, 119 

" olivella, Lea, 19 

" olivula, Con. 117 

" oppugnata, L. 115 

" orbicula, Lea, 119 

" ornatella, Lea, 20 

" ovalis. Lea, 119 

" ovoidea. Lea, 35 

" pallescens, L. 36 

" pagodiformis, 

Anth. 29 

pallidula, A. 28 

" papillosa, A. 16 

Page. 
 Goniobasis parva, Lea, 36 
 " paucicosta A. 21 

" paupercula, L. 23 

" percarinata, C. 17 

" perfusca, Lea, 37 

" pergrata,Lea, 122 

" perstriata, Lea. 18 

" plebeia, Anth. 37 

" plicifera, Lea^ 26 

" porrecta. Lea, 40 

" Postellii, Lea, 17 

" Potosiensis, L. 33 

" proletaria, L. 22 

" propinqua, L.115 

" propria. Lea, 121 

" proscissa, A. 14 

" proteus. Lea, 119 

" proxima. Say, 39 

" pudica, Lea, 116 

pulchella, A. 34 

puUa, Lea, 37 
 " punicea, Lea, 116 

" pupa?formis, 

Lea, 117 

" pupoidea, A. 115 

" purpurea, L. 121 

" purpnrella, L. 23 

Pybasi, Lea, 20 
 " qnadricincta. 

Lea, 35 

" quadrivittata, 

Lea, 121 

" rara. Lea, 116 

rhorabica, A. 28 
 " Rom«, Lea, 36 

rubella, Lea, 39 
 " rubicunda, L. 118 

" rubiginosa, L. 27 

" rubncata, Lea, 39 

" rudens, Keeve, 27 

" rufescens. Lea, 39 

" rugosa, Lea, 24 

" Sattbrdi, Lea, 33 

" scabrella, A. 18 

" sculptilis. Lea, 40 

" Sellersiana, L. 21 

390 

Page. 

Goniobasis semicarinata, 

Lea, 38 

" semicostata, C. 23 

" semigradata, 

Reeve, 18 

" Shastaensis,L. 27 

" Sbelbyensis, 

Lea, 116 

" Showalterii, 

Lea, 117 

" silicula, Gld. 27 

" simplex, Saj, 33 

" Smithsoniana, 

Lea, 19 

" solidula. Lea, 116 

" sordida, Lea, 37 

" Sj^artenburgen- 

sis, Lea, 29 
 " sparus, Lea, 2-1 

" Spillmanii, L. 28 

" spiuella, Lea, 39 

" Stewardsoniana, 

Lea, 15 

" strenua, Lea, 18 

" striatula, Lea, 25 

" subangulata, 

Anth. 30 

" subcylindracea, 

Conrad, 27 
 " sublirata, Con. 15 

" subrhombica. 

Lea, 28 

" subsolida, L. 33 

" sulcosa, Lea, 40 

" suturalis, Lea, 22 

" symmetrica, H. 30 

tabulata, A. 29 
 " ta-niolata, A. 118 

Taitiana, Lea, 39 
 " tecta, Anth. 30 

" tenebrosa, Lea, 21 

" tenebrovittata. 

Lea, 35 

" tenera, Anth. 36 

" terebralis. Lea, 26 

" teres, Lea, 26 

Page. 

Goniobasis textilosa, A. 118 
 Thorntonii, L. 21 
 torta, Lea, 33 
 torulosa, A. 29 
 translucens, A. 35 
 tripartita, R. 25 
 trochiformis,C.27 
 Troostiana, L. 40 
 Tryoniana, L. 14 
 Tuomeyi, L. 19 
 Ucheensis, L, 30 
 undulata, T. 5 
 Vanuxemiana, 

Lea, 117 

Vanuxemii, L. 33 
 varians. Lea, 14 
 variata, Lea, 119 
 varicosa, W. 38 
 Vauxiana, L. 31 
 vesicula, Lea, 18 
 versipellis, A. 21 
 vicina, Anth. 29 
 Vieiinaensis, L.22 
 virens, A. 33 

Virginica, Gm.B9 
 virgulata, L. 120 
 viridicata, L. 23 
 viridostriatus, 

Lea, 16 

vittata, Lea, 17 
 vittatella. Lea, 38 
 Warderiana, L. 33 
 Whitei, Lea, 27 

Goniobranchus, Pease, 204 
 " albomacula- 

tus, P. 204 
 *' reticulatus. 

Pease, 204 

Hehcinacircumhneata, T. 305 
 HeHx alternata, Say, 261 
 " anachoreta, W. G. 

Binn. 311 

" arborea, Say, 13, 251 
 " arcolata, Sowb. 319 
 " arrosa, Gould, 311 

391 

Page. 
 Helix aspersa, Miill. 3i:2 

asteriscus, Morse, 2G3 
 Ayresiana, Pfr. 312 
 Berlandieriana, M. 309 
 bilineata, Pfr. 253 

Binneyana, Morse, 252 
 Brewerii, N. 250, 329 
 Bridgesii, Tryon, 303 
 Bridgesii, Newc. 313 
 ca.Uica, Pfr. 248 

Californiensis,L. 13,317 
 capillata. Pease, 292 
 capsella, Gld. 252 

Carpenterii, Newc. 313 
 cellaria, Miill. 249 

cerinoidea, Anth. 255 
 chersina, Say, 256, 829 
 chersinella, Dall. 328 
 concava, Say, 245 

conspeeta, B. 265, 329 
 Cooperii, W. G. B. 260 
 crebristriata,Newc. 317 
 Cronkhitei, N. 263, 329 
 Cumberlandiana, L. 262 
 decus-atula, Pease, 291 
 demissa, Binney, 255 
 distans. Pease, 290 

Dupetithouarsii, D, 315 
 Durantii, N. 263, 329 
 Elliottii, Redf. 246 
 exarata,Pfr. 312 

exigua, Stimp. 265 

Fabricii, Beck, 256 
 Febigeri, Bid. 373 

ferrea, Morse, 253 

fidelis. Gray, 311 

friabilis, W. G. B. 247 

frivola. Pease, 
 fuliginosa. Griff, 
 fulva, Drap. 
 Gabbii, Newc. 
 Gaussoini, Tryon, 
 griseola, Pfr. 
 gularis, Say, 

290 
 248 
 IS 
 315 
 304 
 309 
 257 

Gundlachi, Pfr. 256 
 Hillebrandi, Newc. 310 

Page. 

Helix hispida, Linn. 308 

" Hornii, Gabb, 330 

" hortensis, Miill. 321 

" Hubbardi, Brown, 259 

" Humboldtiana,Val. 818 

" Idahoensis,N. 1,13, 260 

" incrustata, Poey, 265 

" indentata. Say, 246 

" infumata, Gld. 310 

" inornata, Say, 249 

" intercisa, W. G. B. 819 

" interna, Say, 258 

" intertexta, Binn. 254 

" Jacksonii, Bid. 871 

" jejuna, Say, 308 

" Kelletti, Forbes, 817 

" kopnodes, W. G. B. 248 

" labyrinthica, Say, 259 

" laminata, Pease, 292 

" lasmodon, Phil. 257 

" laevigata, Pfr. 247 

" Isevis, Pfr. 320 

" ligera, Say, 255 

" limatula. Ward, 264 

" lineata, Say, 264 

" lucubrata, Pfr. 247 

" Mazatlanica, Pfr. 266 

" milliura, Morse, 265 

" minuscula, B. 13, 264: 

" minutissima. Lea, 257 

" mormonum, Pfr. 814 

" multidentata, B. 258 

" Newberryana, W. 

G. Binn. 244 

" Nickliniana, Pfr., 312 

" nitida, Miill. 250 

" ottonis, Pfr. 251 

" Oualanensis, Pease, 289 

" pandorre, Forbes, 320 

" perspectiva. Say, 262 

" ramentosa, Gld. 314 

" redemita, W. G. B. 320 

" R^mondi, Tryon, 318 

" Rowellii, Newc. 816 

" rufa, DeKay, 53 

" rufescens, Pennant, 308 

392 

Page. 

Helix rufocincta, Newc. 315 

" rugata, Pease, 291 

" sculptilis, Bland, 249 

" significans, Bid. 372 

" solitaria. Say, 260 

" sportella, Gld. 245 

" striatella, Anth. 262 

" strigosa, Gould, 13, 261 

'•' suppressa, Say, 258 

" subplana, Binn. 250 

" thyroides, Say, 53 

" Tuwnsendiana, Lea, 13 

" Traskii, Newc. 314 

" Tryonii, Newc. 319 

" tudiculata, B. 13, 313 

" Vancouverensis, L. 245 

" varians, Menke, 321 

" Veitchii, Newc. 316 

" venosus, Pease, 290 

" vortex, Pfr. 252 

" Voyana, Newcomb, 256 

" Whitneyi, N. 263, 320 

" zonites, Pfr. 253 

Hemisinus Binneyi, T. 8 

Pazi, Tryon, 300 

simplex, T. 301 

Hercoglossa, Con. 101 

Lacunar ia, Con. 77 

Lepeta coecoides, Carp. 347 

Leptonotis, Con. 76 

Lithophagi subalveata, C. 73 

Lobifera, Pease, 206 

" nigricans, P. 206 

" papillosa, P. 206 

Lottia gigantia, Gray, 343 

Lucina lintea, Con. 281 

Lymnea Cubeusis, Pfr. 11 

" macrostoma, Say, 11 

" Shurtleffii, T. Ill 

Wilsonii, Tryon, 11 

Macoma virginiana, Con. 76 

Megaspira, Lea, 64 

Melania, see Angitrema. 

Eurycfelon. 

Goniobasis. 

Pleurocera. 

Page. 

Melania Balonnensis, C. 80 

" minuta, Tryon, 299 

" Oualanensis, P. 299 

" Peasei, Tryon, 300 

" prieraordica, T. Ill 

" tetrica, Con. 80 

Mercenaria obtusa, Con. 104 

Mysia parilis, C. 71 

Nassa Integra., Con. 65 

" " var. ovata, Con. 65 

" Marylandica, Con. 65 

" quadrata, Con. 65 

" su.bcylindracea, C. Q5 

Nautilus, perforatus, C. 101 

Niso lineata, Con. 69 

Orthonota, Con. 103 

Paludina scalaris, Jay, 114 

Partula bilineata, Pease, 201 

" citrina, Pease, 195 

" compacta, Pease, 200 

crassilabris, P. 199 

" elongata, Pease, 196 

fasciata, P. 202, 293 

" fusca, Pease, 193 

" gracilis, Pease, 197 

" ovalis, Pease, 194 

" rustica, Pease, 190 

" simulans, Pease, 202 

solida. Pease, 198 

" striolata, Pease, 197 

" trilineata, Pease, 195 

" umbilicata, Pease, 200 

" variabilis, Pease, 203 

vexillum, Pease, 198 

" vittata. Pease, 194 

Periploma alta, Con. 70 

fragilis, Tott. 106 

" papjTacea, 281 

Physa acutispira, Tryon, 9 

" Australiana, Con. 81 

" brevispira, Lea, 7 

" coniformis, Tryon, 6 

" Grosveuorii, Lea, 7 

" gyrina, Say, 7, 114 

" Hainesii, Tryon, 9 

" intesra, Hald. 7 

393 

Page. 

Pliysa Niagarensis, Lea, 7 

" oleacea, Tryon, 6 

" parva, Lea, 7 

" pectorosa, Con. 81 

" pomilia, Con. 278 

" Whitei, Lea, 7 

PlanorbisBerencltii, Tr. 10 

" bicarinatus, Say, 3 

" circumstriatus. 

Tryon, _ 113 

" Esperanzensis,T.10 

Plectosoleu,. Con. 103 

Pleurocera bicinctum, Tr. 4 

Pseudocardia, Con. 103 

Pupa Arizonensis, Gabb, 331 

" hordacea, Gabb, 331 

Eissoa exilis, Tryon, 12 

Saxicava parilis, Con. 70 

Septifer Trautwineana, T. 302 

Scurria funiculata, Carp. 347 

mitra, Esch. 345 

Spirialis Flemingii, 182 

Spissula capillaria, Con. 71 

Stenodorus, Pease, 205 

" rubra, Pse. 205 

Succinea aurea, Lea, 241 

" avara, Say, 233 

" campestris, Say, 231 

" cingalata. Fbs. 241 

" concordialis, G. 239 

'' DeCampii, Try. 237 

" effusa, Shntt. * 231 

" Forsheyi, Lea, 239 

" Gabbii, Tryon, 234 

" Greerii, Tryon, 232 

" Groenlandica,B.234 

" Grosvenorii, L. 232 

" Haleana. Lea, 241 

'' Hawkensii,Bld.240 

" Havdeni,W.G.B236 

' Higginsi, Bid. 237", 

373 

Page 

Succinea inflata, Lea, 230 

" ]inGata,W.G.B.235 

" lateola, Gld. 239 

" Mooresiana,Lea,235 

" Nuttalliana, L. 238 

" obliqua, Say, 232 

" Oregonensis, L. 235 

ovalis, Gld. 237 

" retusa, Lea, 238 

" rusticana, Gld. 236 

" Salleana, Pfr. 240 

" Sillimani, Bid. 236 

Stretcluana, B. 231 

" Totteniana, L. 230 

" unicolor, Tryoa,230 

" Yerilli, Bland, 234 

" vermeta. Say, 233 

" Wardiana, Lea, 233 

" Wilsonii, Lea, 238 

Tellina capillifera, Con. 71 

" peracuta. Con. 71 

" Tampaensis, Con. 281 

Terebratulinafilosa,C.77, 105 

Tbracia myseformis, Con. 70 

Tifata longidens. Con. 69 

Tridacna elongata. Larn. 179 

Unio dep3^gis. Con. 107 

" fontanus, Con. 279 

" opalinus, Anth. 146 

" prasinatus, Con. 279 

" uber. Con. 279 

Venilia, Morton, 103 

Vitrina Angv^dicaa, Beck, 243 

" limpida, Gld. 243 

" Pfeiflerii, Newc. 244 

Vivipara genicula, Con. 278 

" sublineata. Con. 79 

" suprafasciata, T. 8 

" Waltonii, T. 108 

Volutifusus, Con. QQ 

" typuH, Con. 67 

Published Quarterly. 

Yearly Volume 400 ^;p., with 25 to 30 Colored and Plain Plates and Portraits. 

SUBSCRTPTIONS IN ADVANCE, TeN DOLLARS PER ANNUM. 

The work will be sent tlirougliout the United States, post-paid, after 
 payment of the yearly subscription. 

Single Numbers for sale at Three Dollars each. 

A limited number of copies of Vols. I. and II. may be had at the 
 same price, to those who are subscribers to the Third Volume ; to others 
 the price will be $13 ; and the price of each subsequent volume will be ad- 
 vanced, on its completion, to $12, except to regular subscribers. 

Subscriptions may be addressed either to the Editor, 

George W. Tryon, Jr., 625 Market Street, Philadelphia, or to the follow- 
 ing Agents for the Journal : 

New York : Bailliere Brothers, No. 520 Broadway. 
 Boston : Little, Brown & Co. 
 London : Trubner «fc Co., No. CO Paternoster Row. 
 Paris : J. B. Bailliere et Fils, Rue Hautefeuille. 
 Madrid : C. Bailly-Bailliere, Calle del Principe. 
 Berlin : Asher & Co., No. 20 Unter d. Linden. 

(P. O. address) .. 186 

To 

Enter mj name on the Subscription List 
 for copies of tlie 

AMERICAN JOUMAL OF COTsCHOLOGY, 

For the year 1867 and thereafter, until I order it to be discon- 
 tinued. 

(Name.) 

' Aiiuniciiii.Toiiriwil of Coiiclinloev l!i()(). 

Tl.it<':i(). 




t)().l .('oluniiin Lear.'nyoii . /''"/. ~ llc'Jiii,~ui)u-' simplex Ji-yoii 
 .. 2. ., Kiiiutsi . Preift'er . ., 8. StptiferTrdutwiiuuiini .. 

., :S mianiaMtmtcL.Trymi. ..ffMJtehxBridfiC'i . 
 .. '/. ., (hMlam-twiir.Teu.'ie. ■■ II. .. Gtiu^^-qmi 
 .. S. ,. Peoiiei . Tryon . ,. 12. Oiondrojxnnal^avairsemt „ 

.. f) Remifiruu'-iPaMiy.Tryon. ., IS.Heticivd rinuuilificditi ., 

BaweitS Co Litka, Col PToi'laU.- 

AiiuTU an.h.iinii.U.f Coik liolo'Jy ll!(i()'. 

^^^ ^s 

4 ^ ^ 

8 

(^ ^ © 

@ ^^ • 

2 .. yc/u>.'ii .. ..7 .. h,ir<l(in-ii , 

?>■ .. tnn>/o . .. .. ,", llr/,.,JarL.,„n./,'/H,H'l 

■I .. fhn-suulln .Ihill .. .7 .. siijiiili,<iii<. .. 

.7 .. Ilorilli . I^d/ili .. 10. .. l-'r/„,iril . 

Dra-\<n:Llw"£J.¥olan, Philaxl/^. 

AJ.i .i«t;t;. I'LJii, 

0^ /% 1^ 

Dra-v/riliy e:. JUolait, tMmia.. 

A. J. c. latiOPi. 23 

i'late (,• 

\ 

Tv 

^ 

DrawiiTyE: J,llola-n.. HiilacL-i. 

EowexL & Co lath fc col. PIiiTiuk . 

WORKS ON NATURAL HISTORY 
 FOR SALE OR EXCHANGE. 

The following Books, duplicates in my Library, are oiVercd 
 For Sale at the annexed prices, or will be Exciiaxgkd for 
 Conchological Works. GEORGE W. TRYON, Jr., 

No. ()25 Market Street, Philadelphia. 

NATURAL HISTORY OF NEW YORK. 19 Vols.. 4to., newly bound in half Morocco, with 

iiiaDV huudreil Colored Plates $1 2'> OU 

The following separate Volumes also for sale, in the same binding : 

MAMMALIA. Bv J. E DeKav. 33 colored platee 5 00 

OR-VITHOLOGY."^ By .T. E DeKay. oSOpp., 141 colored plates 20 00 

HERPETOLOUVANL) ICHTHYOLOGY. By J. E. DeKay. 2 Vols., 400, p. text, lul colored 

plates 1 8 00 

ENTO.MOLOGY. hy E. Emmons. 272pp.. 47 colored plates .) 70 

AGRICULTURE. By E. Emmons. 3 Vols, 770pp , 140 colored plates ol Fruits, 

Ve^'etaliles, &c 26 00 

BOTANV ByJ.Torrey. 2 Vols., 1000pp., ItiO colored plates 25 Oo 

GEt)LOGY. 4 Vols., 1900pp , over 200 plates and map.s 2.) 10 

MINERALOGY. By L. C. Beck. 550pp 6 00 

CUVIER. REUNE ANIMAL. Vol. I, MA.M.MALIA, AVJiS. 8vo , oOOpp., 1817 1 .••0 

CRUSTACEANS, INSECTS, &c ,S4pp.,1817 2 2.( 

L1NX.^US SYST. N.Vr. 13th Edit. MAMMALIA. AVES. Svo., 1032pp , 17SS 1 7.i 

AMPHIBIA, PISCES. .-.OOpp., 1788 1 .iO 

INSEGTA. 2Vols., l.)00pp., 17s8 3 00 

MINERALS. 47opp., 1793 1 00 

BROT. CATALOGUE SYSTEM.\TDE-5MELANIANS. 8yo , 72pp. Geneva, 1862 100 

GRAY, LESSONS I.N BOTANY. Svo, cloth. 18J9 50 

BOTANY OF NORTHERN UNITED STATES, including MOSSES, &c. 8vo., halt- 
 Morocco, 1S..S 1 00 

GRAY, STRUCTURAL AND SYSTEMATIC BOTANY. Svo , half Morocco. 1858 150 

BOURGUlGNAT, A.MENITES MALACOLOGIQUES. 2 vols , Svo., with fine lithographic 

plates. (Published at $25 ) 15 OJ 

ARGENVILLE, L'HISTOIRE NATURELLE ECLaIKCIE DANS U ^E DE SES PARTIES 
 PRl.N'OIPALES L'ORYCTOLOGIE. (Minerals and Fossils.) In Latin and 
 French. 4to., calf gilt, gilt edges, in fine order. 560pp , and many plates. 

Paris, 1755 S 00 

The Museum of Natural History 

OF 

L. W. SCHAUFUSS, 

DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY, ME.MBER OF THE I R. LEOPOLD CAROL. ACADEMY, &c , 

IDresden, 
 Always contains an extensive stock of 
 Mammalia, Skeletons, Bird Skins, Amphibia, Crusta- 
 cea, MoUusca, Coleopterous and Lepidopte- 
 rous Insects, &c., &c., 

And forwards its Price Currents 

FREE OF COST, ON RECEIVING POSTAGE-PAID APPLICATIONS. 

T E R M: S : 

Surplus money returned with delivery of articles. Payment to accom- 
 pany orders. Postage on letters to be prepaid. Customers to pay freights. 
 Payment may be made in (jood Bills of Exchange upon all Commercial 
 places of Europe, or in Prussian and Saxon Treasury Notes, or English 
 Bank Notes. 

L. W. SCHAUFUSS, (formerly E. KLOCKE,) 

Dresden, Saxony. 

CONTEN'TS. 

PAGE 

Descriptions of New Species of Land Shells inhabiting 

Polynesia. By William Harper Pease 289 

A Well-abused MoUUst:: By H. Crosse. (Translated by 

294 

By George W. 

297 

299 

302 

308 

Frank Daulte.. 

Description of a New Species of Columna. 
 Tryon, Jr 

Descriptions of New Species of Melaniidse and Melano- 
 pidse. By George W. Tryon, Jr 

Description of a New Species of Septifer. By George W. 
 Tryon, Jr 

Description of a New Species of Helix. By George W. 
 Trj'on, Jr 

On the Terresirial Mollusca of the Guano Island of 

Navassa. By George W. Tryon, Jr 304 

Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United 

States. CContiniu'd ) By George W. Tryon, Jr 30(i 

On a Species of Helix from California, supposed to be 

New. By William 11. Dall 328 

Descriptions of Three New Species of Land Shells from 
 Arizona. By William M. Gabb 330 

On the Acmseidse of the Vancouver and California pro- 
 vince. By P. P. CarjK'nter 332 

Remarks on the Distribution of the Inoperculated Land 
 Shells which inhabit the Continent of America and 
 the West Indies. By Thomas Bland 349 

Dascriptions of New Species of North American Land 
 bhells. By Thomas Bland 371 

EDITOR'S TABLE. 

Reviews and Summary of Conchological Publications 375 

American. — Conchological Notes, by Dall. — Proceedings of the Philadel- 
 phia Aciidemy of Natural Sciences. — American Journal of Science 
 and Arts. 

Foreupi. — Proceedings of the Zoological Society, London. — Conchologia 
 Iconica, by L Reeve. 

Journal de Conchyliologie. 

Scientific Intelligence 384 

Museum of Comparative Zoology, at Cambridge, Mass — Building 
 Fund of the Academy of Natural Sciences, &c 

TERMS FOR ADVERTISING. 

OKE INSERTION. 

Full Page $5 t'O 

Half Page 3 50 

Quarter Page 2 50 

Eighth Page 1 75 

067 

1 ^r 

^*' 

:»*:-^^ 

^'^^^-.^:V 

-^'*» 

y^^ 




^^%:li^.i^ 

